A digital space is a world of
connection and opportunity. Take this moment, for example. The web has made it
possible for you to enroll in this
program where you will learn from the
personal stories of developers at Meta.
Isn't that exciting? By the time you have completed this professional certificate, you can become a creator
of digital experiences. Connection is evolving,
and so are you. You might not have
a background in tech at all, and that's okay. Even if you have no experience, this program can get you job
ready within a single year. How can this
professional certificate prepare you for a job at
an organization like Meta? The backend developer
professional certificate will help you build job ready skills for a backend development role while earning a
credential from Meta. From Meta engineers, you will learn about how
they collaborate to create and test high performance websites
and applications. We'll also discuss
interesting topics with other aspiring backend
developers and complete a range of coding exercises to improve
your skills. It's important to complete all the courses in the
certificate in order, as each course will
build on your skills. Although we have a recommended
schedule for each course, the program is
entirely self-paced, which means your time
is your own to manage. As you make your way through the courses in this certificate, you'll learn how to
program in Python, which is one of the most popular programming languages
in the world. You'll also learn how to query a database and surface
its data on an interface, build APIs that connect applications to one
another securely, and use a Django web
framework to connect the front end and backend
of your web application. For your final project, you will create a
web application with a functional integration
designed and developed with best practice backend
architecture to showcase as part of your portfolio during
your job search. You'll also be ready to collaborate with
other developers, as you will have learned to use Git and GitHub for
version control. If you're hoping to operate independently or in a
smaller team, not to worry. We've also got you
covered when it comes to the basics
of cloud computing. In the final course, you'll prepare for the
coding interview. You'll practice your interview skills, refine your resume, and tackle some common
coding challenges that typically form part of
technical job interviews. Once you complete the program, you'll get access to the Meta
Career Programs Job Board, a job search platform
that connects you with over 200 employers
who have committed to sourcing talent through
Meta certificate programs. Who knows where you'll end up? Whatever the future of
connection looks like, you'll be part of its
creation. Let's get started.