In a previous video, you learned about the divide
and conquer paradigm. In this video, you're going
to learn about recursions and how to implement the requirements
for recursive solution. One of the basic tenets of any given language is its
ability to perform loops. Loops enable us to
perform actions repeatedly until the
desired output is achieved. Unlike humans,
computers never tire of performing the same
mundane task repeatedly. An alternative
approach to solving a problem than a
loop is recursion. The practice of having
functions call themselves is referred to as recursion and
the focus of this video. Recursion is when a
function calls itself with a smaller instance of a problem repeatedly until some
exit condition is met. What is required for recursion? There are three requirements for implementing a
recursive solution, namely the base case, the diminishing structure,
and the recursive call. Let's look at an
example relating to binary to better illustrate
these three requirements. Consider a challenge
where you are tasked with finding the
exponent of a number. Recall that calculating an
exponent of a number is to determine how many
potential permutations can be derived from it. This was discussed when
demonstrating how binary can be used to represent
a range of characters. The base case ensures that
the function will not continue to call itself
and eventually ends. Line 1 outlines a function
that will take two arguments, x and n. The base case
is if n equals 0. In this instance, the
program will terminate. Line 4 is the second part of
the conditional statement. If a termination point
has not been reached, call the function again
with a reduced structure. In this instance, the goal is
to multiply x by n to find the total number of potential states that could
exist for the binary number. Reducing the input value is as important as establishing
a base case. This way, the function
will eventually reach the base case and
cease to call itself. The third component of a recursive function is to
include a call to itself. This happens on Line 5, where the exponent is accepting
the diminished structure. The structure can be said
to be diminished because the size has been reduced
from one core to another. Each time the
function is called, a new instance is created
on the call stack. Calling the above function
with x equals 2 and n equals 3 will result in three instances being created and placed
on the call stack. This increases
computational cost as resources are required
to make a function call. However, the computation from each result will be
retained on the call stack. This can be useful
when computing hierarchical problems or
problems where one can benefit from knowing
which steps resulted in a given outcome like
traversing a graph. Let's explore an example
of the use of recursion. Consider the video
on binary search. A binary search function will accept an argument of a
list and a target value. First, the middle point of
the list is checked against the elements to determine which half of the list to check. This process is repeated until the target element is found
or deemed to be not there. You might consider solving this problem through a
loop or recursively. The input to the recursion would be a list and a search element, and the recursive
function will call itself until the target
endpoint is reached. Why then use recursion when
a simple loop will do? Some problems lend themselves
well to recursive calls. Consider calculating the
Fibonacci of a given number. Fibonacci is a sequence of numbers where the first
two numbers are zero and one and every other number is the sum of the previous
two numbers in the set. Calculating the result
involves passing a number, calculating the output,
changing the number, then calling the function again
with a new integer input. Writing the code this way means that you can simply
call the function with a different integer and it will return a breakdown of
the required steps. Readability is a strong
plus for recursion. Sometimes when a problem
requires many checks, a loop can quickly
become unwieldy. Recursive solutions reduce
the amount of code required to solve a problem and can be easier to read
and understand. Finally, one would employ a recursive approach as part of a divide and
conquer solution. Here, the problem is broken into smaller steps and repeated to come upon the
optimum solution. In this video, recursion
has been introduced. You have learned that
while recursion can add some computation
overheads to a problem, it can also result in
eloquent, easily read code. Additionally, that
recursion epitomizes a divide and conquer solution, breaking the problem into its smallest components,
and solving those.