Well done. You've reached the end of
the working with algorithms module. Let's take a few moments to review
what you learned during this module. We began the module with a lesson
on sorting and searching. First, you learned about why sorting is
important and explored the three main methods for sorting selection,
insertion, and quick sort. And examined the steps involved for each method that these
algorithms used to sort data. And explore the strengths and weaknesses
of the three sorting approaches when choosing an algorithm to use for
a given solution. Importantly, that there is not one
sorting algorithm that provides the best results in every given scenario. Next, you learned about
searching algorithms, which are a fundamental concept
in computer science and some of the various methods that
are used by algorithms for searching. You explored two core approaches
to searching linear and binary. Linear searches progress through
every item in a given data structure until a specific item is found whereas
binary search is half the search space at each iteration. You also learned the steps involved
in implementing both approaches and some of the advantages they offer. You also took a deep dive into time and
space complexity for both searching and sorting algorithms. You then moved on to the next lesson
where you were introduced to working with algorithms. Here, you learned about different
approaches to working with algorithms. First, you explored the divide and
conquer paradigm. In the divide step, the input is
split into smaller segments and processed individually. In the conquer step, every task associated
with a given segment is solved, and the optional last step is
combining all the solved segments. And you discovered how the divide and
conquer technique offers an effective framework for problem solving and
the various benefits that it provides. Next, you explored another important
algorithmic approach recursion. Recursion is when a function calls
itself with a smaller instance of a problem repeatedly until
some exit condition is met. And you learned that there
are three requirements for implementing a recursive solution,
namely the base case, the diminishing structure,
and the recursive call. You were then introduced to dynamic
programming, which is a programming paradigm that promotes solving problems
by breaking them into smaller problems. You explored the concept of memorization,
the technique of solving sub problems, and storing them to save time
on a potential future search. And to examine the process involved to
compute a dynamic programming solution, essentially, this can be outlined as
first determining the objective function, that is the description of what
the optimum outcome is to be. Next, breaking the problem into smaller
steps and then deciding which dynamic programming approach you would like to
apply to achieve your desired outcome. Finally, you learned
about greedy algorithms. In comparison to the dynamic
programming approach, a greedy approach would look at the list of solutions and
implement a local optimization, usually the current most
rewarding option is chosen. You've explored how a greedy algorithm
approach could be implemented to reach a solution. And note that there is a trade off
when choosing a greedy approach over a dynamic one. While the overhead for
a greedy algorithm is low and coding a solution is
quite straightforward, it will not always guarantee that
the best option is returned. With all the knowledge you have acquired,
all that is left is to complete the final quiz for this module before
moving on to the final module, where you will complete
the graded assessment. And then you've really made it,
you're so close, good luck, and enjoy the rest of your journey.