In the build up to dynamic programming,
you have learned about the divide and conquer paradigm and Recursion. In this video you will learn about
the concepts of memorization and dynamic programming. Dynamic programming is a programming
paradigm that promotes solving problems by breaking them into
smaller problems and solving these. The solutions are then stored in an
appropriate data structure for later use. The advantage to this is that if these sub
problems require being computed again, one only searches for the answer
instead of computing the problem again. The technique of solving sub problems and storing them to save time on a potential
future look up is known as memorization. Dynamic programming relates to two
concepts already encountered in the previous videos. Let's have a quick refresher
on these concepts. The first is divide and conquer,
that is taking one large problem and breaking it into a smaller set of
sub problems and then solving these. The second is a subset of
this known as Recursion. Recursion is the practice of coding
a solution that avoids running loops but instead uses multiple self calls
in coming upon a solution. Dynamic programming is an extension
of these approaches which in addition involves keeping a record
of results generated from running the sub problems each
time they are newly run. In subsequent runs instead of re computing
results a look up is queried for the last time the question was asked, as said,
this approach is called memorization. And to reinforce the concept, this is when the results of previous
calculations are stored and used in place of rerunning
the calculations when the compiler identifies that the computation
has been run for a previous task. To exemplify this, consider the question
posed in the video about binary numbers. How many combinations were possible
with a binary lock of six digits? In a previous video it was shown
that you can discover this through exponentiation or
finding the power of a number. So the same lock with six digits
would have 2 to the power of 6 or 64 combinations. So 2 to the power of 6 equals 2
times 2 times 2 times 2 times 2. Alternatively, you can divide
these into two groups where you have calculated 2 times 2 times 2 and
again 2 times 2 times 2. That will result in 8 times 8 and
again give the same result. Applying a divide and
conquer approach to computing this efficiently using memorization
would reduce the computations by first calculating to the power of 3 and
again 2 to the power of 3. By applying memorization, the first 2
to the power of 3 would be computed, then reused for the second bracket,
reducing the overall computation required. So, what sorts of problems are good
fits for a dynamic solution? The dynamic programming approach,
is commonly applied to combination or optimization problems. One example of a combination
problem already mentioned is the Fibonacci sequence. Another instance you may encounter in
an interview is the knapsack problem. This is both a combination and
an optimization problem. Say for a planned camping trip, you can
fill a knapsack with the required items, each item has a weight cost to it. A torch equals 1kg, water equals 2kg,
and the tent equals 3kg. Additionally, each item has a value. The torch equals 1, water equals 2,
and the tent equals 3. In short, the knapsack problem outlines
a list of items that weigh different amounts and have different values. You can only carry so
many items in your knapsack. The problem requires calculating
the optimum combination of items you can carry if your backpack
can carry a certain weight. The goal is to find the best return for
the weight capacity of the knapsack. To compute a solution for
this problem, you must select all items that add up to a given weight and
contain a given value. The weight carriable will change,
this problem can be applied to resource allocation, where you have so
much CPU power and X tasks to run. Just like the capacity of a CPU
dedicated to completing tasks. Sometimes the weight will be 7kg,
and other times it might be 10 kg. Dynamic programming involves saving
the computations used to come upon a given solution. So, if you have computed
an optimum selection for 7kg and it is raised to 10 kg, you will not have
to rerun the initial computations again. This can be a time saving metric. When computing dynamic
programming solutions, you must firstly determine
the objective function. That is the description of what
the optimum outcome is to be. Next you must break
the problem into smaller steps. One approach already discussed for achieving this can be the use
of recursive functions. That is functions that will call
themselves repeatedly until a solution is come upon. They should be written in such a way
that you can change the outcome without altering the code for
the methods already written. To conclude, in this video, it has
been shown that dynamic programming is an approach that looks to optimize
solutions to a given problem. It uses principles of memorization and overlapping sub problems to identify
when an objective function can be achieved quickly,
optimizing the computation steps required.