In this video, you will learn how you
can implement this paradigm to solve complex problems by
using greedy algorithms. There is a philosophical
principle called Occam's razor. It states that the simplest solution
is almost always the best one. This problem solving principle argues that
simplicity is better than complexity. In our case, the greedy algorithm
is the simple solution. This is an alternative approach
to dynamic programming as this approach seeks to present
an immediate solution for a task and favors local optimization over
a more holistic global approach. When engaging with a problem
subdivided into segments, utilizing a dynamic programming approach
would find a globally optimal solution so that each sub problem is solved and the
best subset is selected and implemented. A greedy approach would instead
look at the list of solutions and implement a local optimization. Usually, the current most
rewarding option is chosen. To make this more clear, let's take an instance of a CPU that
has a list of tasks to be completed. Applying the dynamic programming approach
would entail selecting a subset of activities that could be completed within
a given time and executing these tasks. With the knapsack analogy,
this would involve determining what subset of items to pack that would maximize the
value in the process of filling the bag. A greedy algorithm approach
to this would be always to select the most valuable item and
place this in the bag, giving no thought to what other items
this would exclude from the process. Thus, in our CPU example, a greedy
approach would involve selecting first the shortest running program and
then the next shortest program and so on. While this might not lead to
a globally optimized solution, it will reduce any overhead in calculating
the most efficient subset of items. To better understand how these
two approaches would differ, let us consider the problem
of the shortest path. The image shows a map with
nine different nodes, A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H and S. Each node is connected to
another node by a weighted path. This weight reflects the cost that would
be incurred by selecting this path. Thus, in our CPU example, a greedy
approach would involve selecting first the shortest running program and
then the next shortest program and so on. While this might not lead to
a globally optimized solution, it will reduce any overhead in calculating
the most efficient subset of items. You are now faced with making
a journey from E to F, and want to plot the most effective route. A dynamic programming approach
would involve creating a table, and calculating each potential node from E. From there, it would introduce
the next set of nodes and calculate the accumulated cost. This approach would undoubtedly arrive
at the most efficient solution. Using memoization after the initial
calculations were made, they would be saved and subsequent journeys would
benefit from a quicker computed time. This is a bottom up global
approach to the problem. A greedy approach would
differ in its methodology. Instead of trying to find an optimal
subset of connected routes, it would instead begin at node E and
look at each available connection. Thus, it would have a selection
of weights namely 5, 3, 2, 4 and 12 which correspond to node C,
B, D, G and H. The lowest value in that array is 2,
which corresponds to node D. Following the greedy principle,
it would make this selection and progress to the next node. Assuming that the data
structure was a directed graph, it would be presented with
a further three nodes, A, F and G that have the values of 75 and
6 respectively. Since F is the final location,
it would select F and arrive at its destination happily
having amassed a total penalty of 7 for travel time from E to D and then to F,
that carries a weight of 2 + 5. Visually, you can see that this is the
most efficient approach, and it was come upon without creating an exhaustive table
of combinations and computing all routes. However, had the node between G and
F had a penalty of 2, then it would have selected
a less optimal solution. This is a trade off when choosing
a greedy approach over a dynamic one. While the overhead for
a greedy algorithm is low and coding a solution is
quite straightforward, it will not always guarantee that
the best option is returned. You now have a greater understanding
of the greedy algorithm approach. In addition, you have seen how it compares
with the dynamic solution and thus deepened your grasp of the strengths and
weaknesses of this alternative approach. Next time you are plotting
a route in Google Maps, consider the selection of
routes that are offered and think about how these roots
might have been calculated.