The divide and conquer paradigm
offers a useful framework for thinking about how to
solve a given problem. It encompasses two principles
discussed in this module, namely, recursion and breaking problems
down into smaller problems. In this video, you will learn about
the divide and conquer paradigm and how it offers a framework for
problem solving. You will also learn about the mandatory
and optional steps involved in the divide and conquer paradigm and what advantages
this paradigm brings to computers. So how does the divide and
conquer algorithm work? The algorithm comprises two steps with
an optional third, namely, divide and conquer, which are the mandatory steps and
combine, which is an optional step. In the divide step, the input is
split into smaller segments and processed individually. In the conquer step, every task associated
with a given segment is solved. The optional last step, combine,
is combining all the solved segments. This will not happen in every instance,
but will for the example provided. The following is an example of
the divide and conquer paradigm. When discussing sorting approaches, it was shown that there are many
ways to solve a problem. Using sorting as our example,
let's discuss another sorting approach that can be solved using a divide and
conquer approach. Merge sort is a sophisticated approach for
sorting an array. It starts by having the array, these two
halves and then halved, and halved again. This process is repeated until there
is only one element remaining, then, the process reverses and each smaller list is sorted before
rejoining the part it was halved from. This solution to a problem is based on
the idea that by breaking a problem into smaller problems,
it is easier to complete the overall task. To gain greater intuition
on how divide and conquer can be applied to merge sort,
let us explore a real world example. Consider you and three housemates have
decided to do the shopping together. After having compiled an extensive list,
you all go to the supermarket. One solution might be that you all
walk around the supermarket and pick up each item from the list. A better approach might be to
break the list into four parts and each take a section, this would reduce
the overall time spent in the shop. Though this might cause an amount
of overlap between parties, a further optimization of the task
then might be to first sort the list. So that all similar items are together,
for example, all the beverages, the fruits, the meats and so on. Then, assign each member a given
area of the supermarket, this would be an even more efficient
approach to completing the task. They say a problem shared
is a problem halved. So how does this work on computers? There are two immediate advantages namely,
parallelization and memory management. Parallelism is when you have different
threads or computers working on the same problem at the same time
to complete it in a quicker time. A benefit to employing divide and conquer solutions is that you can
then employ parallelism when coding. Now, let's explore memory management. With the merge sort example, consider that each array can be sent to
a different core or server depending on the architecture of your organization and
the results are then returned. It might be the data being processed
is too large to hold in memory and must be processed in chunks. Additionally, the boss may have
provisioned access to cloud computing. So the solution can involve
accessing an online server and exporting some of the problems
from the company servers. All this contributes to
managing your available memory. In this video, you were introduced to
the paradigm of divide and conquer through an example of merge sort and how it
offers a framework for problem solving. Some various terminology associated with
it, as well as how this approach lends itself to real world computer optimization
approaches were demonstrated. You also learned about the mandatory and
optional steps involved in the divide and conquer paradigm, and what advantages
this paradigm brings to computers.