Debugging is the process of identifying and
isolating an error, finding the source, and deploying measures to
solve the problem. While making mistakes is
a part of programming, correcting errors
inside a web framework, such as Django can be
particularly difficult. Unlike errors occurring in a standalone file that
can be easily spotted, web projects consists of several interlinked files and dependencies that can make
troubleshooting challenging. While debugging takes patience, it also helps build a better understanding of the internal working
of an application. In this video, you
will learn more about debugging
Django applications. Mistakes can happen in many forms and at any stage
of the development process. These can include
missing adding a view, creating incorrect templates,
missing import statements, inaccessible resources
such as model data, or even missing a comma in some attributes passed
inside a function. As a beginner, seeing
the errors and having to troubleshoot
can be intimidating. While observation and
hands-on practice with web applications
are the best means to overcome errors
in Django projects, there are tools available
that can speed up the process of getting a
project up and running. You already know how to raise a few errors using provided
internal implementations. But there are
unforeseen errors that occur that also needs
to be attended to. Django has a distinct
debugger that appears in the form of
a yellow page arrow. You may recall seeing
the debug equals true flag on the homepage of the local host after
running the server. The Django debugger
is enabled by default and settings
for it can be found and modified inside the settings.py file
of your project. While it is a useful
component of development, the developers of Django
recommend that it should never be used in the
production environment. This is because it may
expose internal file parts, as well as database and
project configuration details to the end user
using your website. This can be prevented
by changing the setting to
debug equals false. Other than the default debugger provided by Django, Django, as you know is written
in Python and can easily integrate third party libraries
that help in debugging. Let's now examine a
few ways in which you can debug Django
applications. This example uses the creating forms project
demonstrated area. Begin by launching the
development server. Immediately, you'll notice
there is a 404 page not found error and this is
because you haven't configured the URL
for the local host. Also, notice that this displays in the
console in the logger. It's important to know that the default Django
implementation enlists all the steps
that Django has performed after you
run the command. Let's now go to the correct URL. Notice that the logs update at the bottom
inside the console. Now, open the forms.py file. Python specific errors will most likely occur in the console log. For example, if you comment out the shifts constant
and save the file, notice an error log displays
inside the console. The name error displays
with the text, name shift is not defined. If you try to refresh the
local host URL in the browser, notice that the
page will not load. However, some other errors
are not that obvious. For example, remove
the import you passed inside the log
form and save the file. Notice that you do not
get any error in the log. However, if you
refresh the web page, notice that the template for the form disappears except for the submit button
that was rendered using static HTML markup. To prevent this from happening, always ensure you have
the right imports and that you pass the correct
arguments inside functions. Let's say you open the file,
my template home.html. Inside the file,
remove the code for the CSRF token and
save the file. If you go to the local host
URL and reload the page, notice that the forms
render correctly. Fill out the form and
press the submit button. Notice that an error
displays stating, forbidden CSRF
verification failed. This error specifies that
the CSRF token is missing, which is helpful for
troubleshooting. You can broadly say the
yellow page errors are more specific to problems inside
Django than Python code. Now, let's say you go
to the files.py file again and misconfigure
the template you are trying to render. Let's say you call this
home_page.html and save it again. Once you go to a template page, you get an error
such as template does not exist in
the particular path. Let's examine this page
in a little more detail. First, it specifies the
exception location, and you can get a hint
from get template and how it is raised
during form view. Next, if you keep scrolling, you get a stack, which is called the
trace back stack. It contains Python code in sequential order with a
particular line highlighted, which will likely be
the place of the error. You can also convert this to switch to copy
and paste view. When you change this, you get a much
cleaner interface, mentioning all the details. You can additionally click on, share this trace back
on a public website, which when clicked, will
take you to debase.com. This page displays
convenient clipboard content that you can share
on different forums. If you scroll down further, there's information about
the dictionary containing all available HTTP header
information called meta. On further scrolling, you
can find details inside the settings and all of these
are potentially helpful. Regarding debugging, you can never apply a one rule
for all approach. With practice, the
number of errors you encounter will
slowly decrease. A systematic and
patient approach in dealing with these projects
is the best way forward. In this video, you learned how to debug Django applications, which will help
you in the future when you have to
troubleshoot errors.