Congratulations, you've reached the end of
this module on templates. In this module,
you've learned to create templates and use the template language to create markup and templates
to generate HTML. You also explored
troubleshooting through the processes of
debugging and testing. It's now time to
recap the key points. You began the module by
exploring templates. Now that you've completed
this first lesson, you can express what templates
are in Django and how they benefit you when using logic
to create HTML structures. You are introduced to the Django template
language or DTL for short, which consists of constructs
such as variables, tags, filters, and comments. Then you practiced how to
create templates to render static HTML elements that
displayed dynamic content. Following the first lesson, you learned about
working with templates. More specifically, you
explored working with template language and
variable interpolation. You are now able to create
dynamic templates in Django and map model
objects to the template. Next, you explored
template inheritance, where you split out content into individual components
and re-used these segments
across HTML pages, such as headers and footers. Using DRY principles ensures that you don't duplicate work. You learned that template
inheritance used two main tags. The first is the include tag, which renders a template. The second is the extends tag, which makes use of a string literal and a value
of a variable. This just allows you to replace blocks or content from
a parent template. Finally, you learned about
debugging and testing. Here you learned about
debugging Django applications. Django has a distinct
debugger that appears in the form of
a yellow page error. Recall the debugger
equals true flag. The Django debugger
is enabled by default and settings
for it can be found and modified inside the settings.py file
of your project. This default or page displays some technical
information for the developer and
you do not want your end users to access
this type of information. This can be prevented
by changing the setting to
debugger=false. Mistakes can happen
in many forms and at any stage of the
development process. These can include
missing adding a view, creating incorrect templates,
missing import statements, inaccessible resources
such as model data or even missing a comma in some attributes passed
inside a function. You also learned that
debugging is more driven towards removing the
application's errors and bugs, and testing considers
metrics for quality, reliability, and performance. It effectively saves a lot
of time for the developer. You know that every
language and framework have many testing options that
work well in Django, a popular method
is unit testing, which you can use to
isolate a function, class or method and only
test that piece of code. In Django, the unit test module uses a class-based
approach where you can add the tests inside the class
that inherits a class called TestCase from the
Django test package. You have reached the end of this module and are now
familiar with templates. You can create templates and use templating to generate HTML. You can work with
templates and integrate third-party libraries
into your Django app. You can also use
class-based views in Django and reuse them across
a project. Well done.