Testing is an important component in
the software development lifecycle. While debugging is more driven
towards removing the applications, errors and bugs. Testing considers metrics for
quality, reliability and performance. It effectively saves a lot of time for
the developer. Every language and
framework has many testing options and developers make appropriate selections
based on the project's requirements. Many testing packages and
tools work well with Django. A popular method is unit testing, which
you can use to isolate a function class or method and only test that piece of
code when working with unit testing, you need the following
baseline information. First, the test targets
granular features in your code, the smallest possible testable units, then the output of the test will be
pass fail or an error in this video. You will learn the concept of testing
in Django using an example of the unit test module in python. In Django. The unit test module uses
a class based approach. You add the tests inside a class
that inherits a class called test case from the Django test package. Suppose you wrote a model called
reservation and want to test it. First import that test case
class that inherits test case, then import the reservation model. Once you create the tests, use the command
python three manage dot pi test. Additionally, you can add specific
configurations to run all tests within a specific package. For example, run the command, python
three manage dot pi test reservations. To run a specific test case. Use the command python
three manage dot pi test reservations dot tests dot
reservation test case. Our suppose you want to run a specific
test method inside a test case, for example,
a method to calculate the seat count. You can run the command like
python three manage dot pi test reservations dot
tests dot reservation. Test case dot test seat count. It's important to know that developers
generally add these test cases under one or more files created
under specific app folders. In a small project it's common for
developers to name the file tests dot pi. In large projects that may contain
multiple test files, it's common for developers to use names like test
models dot pie and test views dot pi. Okay, now, you know about
the concept of testing in Django, let's open v s code and
explore an example to create a unit test. Earlier you learned how to use
unit tests in python to test code. In this example you will explore
how Django uses the unit test module with the test case package. Let's explore how you can test the model
data inside a Django application using a test case, notice that
the project is already created and the app configuration is set up inside
the settings, file installed apps list. In this example you will work
with two files, models dot pi and tests dot pi Inside models dot pi,
you create a model and add the test code inside
the tests dot pi file. If either of these files does not exist, you can create them inside
the my app directory. So first you add a model
inside the models dot pi file. This model will record the first name,
last name and the booking time for a reservation, a customer makes
at the little lemon website. The auto Now field inside the booking
time logs the system's current time and is set to true next save the file and
go to tests dot pi. Notice that the test case module
inside the django dot test package has already been imported. Additionally, you must import
the required package called date time. You also must import the model that you
must use which is the reservation model. The next step is to create a class
called reservation model test and inside it passed the test case. Next you add a set up test
data class method and pass a class object inside it set up. Test data is a method present
inside the test case that you use to add data inside the model. So in this example data is entered for
the first name and the last name. It is important to know that
booking time automatically updates as the auto Now parameter
is set to true next you create a function called as test fields
to check if the first name and the last name that I received
are in a string format. You perform the check using
the assert statements to check both the first name and
last name are of the string data type. Similarly you must create
another function called as test underscore timestamps inside
this function you insert another assert statement
such as assert instance and this time compared the booking
time to the imported daytime. Okay, once this code is ready, you must run the migrations since
you have a newly created model. The final part of this step is to remember
to add the classmethod decorator. Since this is a class method. Now save the file with this code. Complete. You are now ready to run
the tests by typing python three manage dot pi test in the terminal,
press enter and notice that the application ran and
passed two tests. The running of the tests is
represented by the two dots displayed in the terminal back in the model
let's change one of the fields from string to end to see if the test
produces a different result. So save the file and
run the test one more time. Notice that one of the tests has failed. Additionally, an assertion
error is displayed stating that the last name you have assigned is
not an instance of an integer class. The ascertain ation error is also
indicated by the characters f dot which means that one of the tests has failed and
the other one has passed. If you are familiar with using unit tests
in python notice that the implementation is similar to that, which you will
find in conventional python code. This example demonstrated how
to implement a basic test in django as a platform and
framework is pretty huge. So it's important to remember that
many testing, configurations and options are available to be
explored by the developer. In this video, you learned about
the concept of testing in Django using an example of the unit
test module in python.