Congratulations on completing the programming
and Python course. You've worked hard
to get here and acquired lots of important
skills during the course. You should now have a
great foundation of back-end web development skills. This is the base view to continue building
on in the future. You've also
demonstrated your skill sets in the graded assessment. Following completion
of this first course, you should now be able to complete basic
programming with Python, distinguish between
the programming paradigms of procedural, functional and
object-oriented programming. Demonstrate how to use
modules, packages, and libraries, and work within a test-driven
development environment. What are the next steps? Well, this is one course in the back-end developer
professional certificate. While you've established
a good foundation so far, there's still more
for you to learn. So if you've enjoyed this course and want
to discover more, why not enroll in
the other courses? Throughout each
of these courses, you'll continue to
develop your skill set, whether you're just
starting out as a technical professional
or student, this project will equip
you with the knowledge of back-end development
practices as used in many business areas such
as: web development, artificial intelligence,
machine learning, data analytics, and many
other applications. You have written a portfolio of Python code that will demonstrate your skills
to potential employers. This shows employers that you are self-driven and innovative. It also speaks
volumes about you as an individual and your drive
to continue your growth. Once you've completed all the courses in
this certificate, you'll receive a
Coursera certification for back-end developer. These certifications provide
a globally recognized and industry endorsed evidence of
mastering technical skills. Congratulations once again on reaching the end of this course. It's been a pleasure
to embark on this voyage of
discovery with you. Best of luck and do continue to follow
your learning journey.