Imagine your application
is featured on a famous blog, and as a result, many more visitors are
coming to your site, or you've received
many sign-ups after a successful social
media campaign and your database
is growing fast. If your application is not
ready to handle such loads, or sudden traffic
spikes, the web server, or the database server will
fail to handle requests. They will either be extremely slow to respond, or go down. That is why your production
server must be scalable to sustain such loads or be
responsive as your users grow. In this lesson, you are going to learn everything
about scalability. Scalability is the
process of resizing your production
infrastructure to withstand the load as
it goes up, or down. Sometimes the load
could be sudden, otherwise it will
continue to grow as your application gets bigger and starts to have more users. Usually in a production
environment the main bottlenecks are the web server and the database server which
needs to be scalable. There are two types of scaling,
vertical and horizontal. Let's examine them in detail. Under load, the web server and database is mostly
fail for two reasons, lack of resources
like CPU and RAM, or incorrect configuration which prevents them from using
available resources. If you are failing due to
the lack of resources, it's a comparatively easy fix. The solution is to add
more storage, RAM, or processing cores to
the Virtual Machine, or upgrade the
physical processor. This process of adding RAM, or CPU, or storage is
called vertical scaling. But there is a problem
with vertical scaling, you cannot add an infinite
amount of processor cores, RAM, or storage in
a physical machine. How many resources you can add depends on the hardware
configurations. Once the limit is reached, you cannot scale anymore. Moreover, adding physical
hardware like this can be very expensive and
unrealistic over time. Vertical scaling is quicker than horizontal scaling and
has easier configuration. Therefore, it looks
appealing as an easy fix, but beware of its limitations. It can be costly over time, or when it needs repairs. Always keep in mind
that you cannot scale infinitely with
vertical scaling. However, there is another
type of scaling that overcomes these issues and
that is horizontal scaling. In fact, it's considered more efficient and
cost-effective. In this process you add nodes, or virtual servers
as the load goes up and remove the nodes
when they go down. For example if one web server can handle 2,000
requests per minute, to withstand the load of
10,000 requests per minute, you need to add four extra
nodes to the web server. Five nodes will be
capable of handling 10,000 requests per minute
without any issues. The same thing goes
for the database, you can use database
replication, or database clustering to
create multiple database nodes as the load grows and when
the load returns to normal, you can remove
those nodes again. An application with a proper
horizontal scaling setup can be scaled to handle a
tremendous amount of load. It's infinitely scalable
with horizontal scaling. However, it's not a
plug and play process. Configuring your application
infrastructure to be horizontally scalable
takes time and effort. Finally, let's
discuss auto-scaling. Some Cloud providers offer an excellent auto-scaling
solution with no manual intervention,
or extra configuration. When you turn on Auto Scaling, the Cloud provider
automatically adds, or removes computing
nodes, memory, or other resources to keep the applications sustainable
and healthy under load. With this feature you can
save a lot of time and ensure better uptime
for your application. In this video, you learned
about scalability and the pros and cons of vertical
and horizontal scaling.