Load balancers help scale
your application by evenly distributing loads
on multiple nodes in a round-robin fashion, or based on node health. You can use various
load-balancing techniques to reduce the pressure on your
application infrastructure. In this video, you
will learn about them. Let's start with load
balancing the web server. Your web server plays
a vital role in accepting all HTTP requests, sending them to the
backend scripts, getting the response, and delivering it to the client. The web server also receives requests to serve static HTML, CSS, and JavaScript files. Many Cloud providers offer
load-balancing services. Using these, you can create
multiple web servers with the same application code and link them to
the load balancer. The load balancer then accepts all HTTP requests and sends
them to the web servers. This load distribution
can happen in two styles, round-robin and health based. In the round-robin style, the load balancer distributes the load equally on
all web servers. But there is a problem. Not every request is the same. Some requests take
a fraction of a second to finish and
some take longer. In a round-robin load
distribution model, if a web server is already
working on a request, it may receive
subsequent requests, and then take a long time
to process those requests. There's a better way to
deal with this problem. Some load balancers
are configured in a way that can monitor the
load on these web servers and then distribute
the load only on those nodes which are available
and not already loaded. This is called health-based load balancing and works
better than round-robin style. You can use a reverse proxy
to perform load balancing. The web server serves everything including
application URLs, API calls, and static files. A reverse proxy can
be configured in such a way as to serve the
static files by itself, and forward the applications specific URLs and API
calls to the web server. Static files includes HTML, CSS, JS, text files, and images. This technique is widely used and improves
the performance of your web server by
reducing the number of requests the web
server has to handle. Similar to serving
the static assets using a reverse proxy, you can completely
offload them to an external content
delivery network or CDN. This can speed up your
applications page rendering time, because CDN services
create multiple copies of these static files and serve them from the client's
nearest data center. The database is one of the most crucial parts of
every web application. A well-tuned database server
can handle a huge load. Scaling a database is more complex than scaling
a web server. Sometimes vertical
scaling helps, but horizontal scaling has
better sustainability. There are two popular techniques for scaling databases
horizontally. The first one is sharding. This is when a large
database is split into multiple chunks and one database
server holds one chunk. One extra database is needed to keep track of these
chunks for better lookup. With the master-slave
replication approach, the whole database is
replicated on multiple servers. One works as a master server where the data
modifications happen. As soon as something changes, the master server writes those
changes on other servers, which are called
the slave servers. All the read requests are evenly distributed to these
slave servers. This way, multiple
slave servers can handle more SQL queries
and still remain healthy. Most Cloud providers offer managed database servers where
they internally balanced the loads and process
a massive amount of data without creating
trouble or going down. Using this managed
database service, the developer remains worry-free and focuses on development and business growth instead of tedious infrastructure
management and DevOps processes. The load balancing techniques discussed are considered
public load balancing, because they are
directly dealing with the external client requests. Private load balancing is
sometimes necessary where heavily loaded internal
non-public applications, or microservices
are communicating with each other over
private IP addresses. In this video, you learned
about load balancing. You learned about different public load-balancing techniques for the web server
and databases, and about private
load-balancing.