You have reached the end of this module about
production environments. It's now time to reflect on the key concepts and
elements you learned about. Let's get started. First, you learned about
web server environments. You learned that the process of uploading code and
data to servers is called deployment and that it
can be manual or automated. Two essential terms
you should remember are continuous
integration or CI, which imitates the production environment and runs tests, and continuous deployment or CD, which is the uploading process. You also learned that hosting applications can be either
server or serverless. With the server approach, a dedicated server or virtual servers provide
access to idle resources, but it has to be
managed manually. With serverless, you don't
have to configure anything, as everything is provided and managed by the
serverless provider. Next, you learned about virtual machines and
containerization. There are two types
of hypervisors, type 1 and type 2, that can split a
dedicated server into multiple virtual ones. Type 1 works directly with the
hardware and it runs fast, but it's complex to set up. Type 2 works on top of
an operating system, which makes it slower, but you don't have to
deal with any hardware. You also learned about
resource sharing, where you can either use the dedicated server that's
potentially wasteful, or virtual machines, where there are shared resources and therefore no wastage. There's also the concept
of containerization, which allows you to pack applications and
dependencies and container image
files that can run anywhere regardless of
operating system or hardware. There are some key
terms related to containerization that
you should remember. A group of connected
containers sharing the same resource to solve
a problem is called a pod. Multiple pods related or working independently
are called a node. Container orchestration
is the management, deployment, networking, and
scaling of the containers. Following this, you
learned about PaaS, which is a Platform as
a Service that gives you everything you need
to run an application, much like cloud
service providers. You also learned about SaaS, which is Software as
a Service that solves a particular problem and
provides an API to use it. DBaas is a Database as a Service and provides
only database solutions. Lastly, you learned
about IaaS or Infrastructure as a Service for creating an infrastructure
with servers. Self-hosted means
that everything is hosted on your server. You create the infrastructure
and networks and they have to be managed
by you or your team. Next up was a lesson about cloud computing where
you learned that there are three
different types of cloud infrastructure: public, private, and hybrid cloud. All three offer you access
to high-powered machines. A key element of cloud
computing is a computing unit, which is virtual
machines that are available for
on-demand deployment. You also need to buy storage and you have
the option to buy gigabytes or terabytes or
you can use object storage, which is when an API uploads
and downloads your files. Cloud providers offer
fully-managed database solutions that scale automatically, freeing up your time
and saving you effort. Another key element of cloud computing is
machine learning, which requires a lot
of computing power. It's cheaper with
cloud computing because you don't have to
buy physical hardware. Then you learned about
networking in the cloud, where you can use either
public networking or private networking, where cloud units are not
public facing and only communicate with other units
in the same application. Following this, you had a lesson about scaling in the
cloud where you learned that there are two types of scaling, vertical
and horizontal. With vertical
scaling, you add RAM, CPU, or storage to a
physical or virtual machine. But there's a limit to
how much you can add. Physical hardware is expensive. Horizontal scaling,
on the other hand, adds nodes or virtual servers as the load goes up and removes
nodes when they go down. This means you're not
limited like you are with vertical scaling and
cost can be kept down. Cloud providers
offer auto-scaling, which saves you a
lot of time because no manual intervention or
extra configuration is needed. You also learned
about load balancing, which includes load
balancing the web server, the data server, and the cloud. With the cloud, cloud
providers offer services where they
internally balanced loads. Whereas you have
several options to load balance your data server
by horizontal scaling, either by using clustering
or master-slave replication. When it comes to load
balancing the web server, you can use either a
round-robin approach or a health-based one. Another option is to use a reverse proxy to
perform load balancing. Lastly, you learned about how content delivery networks or CDNs can improve
scaling by caching and serving static
assets in the cloud and how CDNs can determine the
nearest point of presence, which is a server where
static assets are stored. You covered a lot of
ground in this module, so some congratulations
are in order. You should reward
yourself with a break before you dive into
the last module. That's all about
the final project.