Now that you've been
introduced to the course, it's time to start setting
up for the Capstone Project. In this video, you'll revise several concepts related to
setting up a Django project. First, you will need to
make sure that you have your coding environment
ready for work. As per the objective
of this course, you will build a
Django application for the Little Lemon restaurant. On your local machine, you will perform the
following tasks and checks to install Python, installed VS Code, create and activate a
virtual environment, and install the
Django framework. If you don't have Python
installed locally, download the Python
installer for your operating system and architecture from the
official website, then perform the installation by following the
installation wizard. Likewise, carry
out similar steps to download and install VS Code. You can find links to these official websites from the additional reading at
the end of this lesson. Once Python and VS
Code is set up, Python recommends using separate
virtual environments for each Django application so that the dependencies
do not conflict. For example, use
the venv module in Python standard
library to create a virtual environment
named Little Lemon. Once you create the
virtual environment, you must activate it and install the Django framework library using the pip installer utility. Recall that once
Django is installed, a command line
utility named Django admin is made available
in the scripts directory. It's important to know that the location of this script and it's associated folders is different depending on
your operating system, so please refer to the additional reading at
the end of this lesson. To create a Django project, run the Start Project command, then step inside the
project directory and run the command to start
the development server. Recall that the Django
development server will run, and you can load the localhost
URL from your web browser. Next, you must
create an app inside the project using the
Start Up command. It's important to remember
that you add the app to the settings.py file in the
installed apps list. Once your Django
project is set up, it's time to push the code
to your GitHub repository. The steps are as follows. In your browser, visit
the GitHub website, sign up and create a new
repository named Little Lemon. Back in your local machine, opened the Git Bash terminal and navigate to the Django
project folder. Next, initialize the
local repository with Git init command, then add the project to
the repository and commit. Finally, push the
local repository to the GitHub repository
you have created. In this video, you revised the key concepts related to
setting up a Django project.