The Little Lemon Restaurant has asked me
to add a new blog page to their website. They've told me that the page will
contain several blog posts, and that it must use semantic html so
that search engines and accessibility software can understand
the semantics of the page. I've set up my basic html document
structure in a file named blog.html. I'll start off by adding my
basic semantic structure. First I add the header element. Followed by the nav element, Followed by the main element. Followed by the footer element. Remember this structure describes
the semantics of this html document. Specifically the header element will be
used to display the Little Lemon logo, and the nav element will be used to describe
the navigational structure of the website. The main element will feature
the main content of the web page, and the footer will be used to
display copyright information. When a search engine or accessibility
software reads this document, the semantic tags will help
the software understand the purpose and meaning of different
sections of the document. I will now add the details
to each element. Inside the header element, I add
the Little Lemon logo using the image tag. Inside the nav element, I add the navigation links in an a ordered
list element using the ul tag. I then add three list item
elements using the li tag. Inside the list items, I add the hyperlinks for index.html, location.html and blog.html using the anchor tag. In the main element,
I add an h1 tag for the blog heading. The restaurant told me that there will
be two blog posts for their website. So I add two article elements
after the h1 element. Inside the first article element, I add
an h2 tag for the title of the blog post. The title is 20% off this weekend. I then add a paragraph
element below the title which contains the blog post text. Inside the second article element,
I add an h2 tag for the title which is our new menu. Again I add a paragraph element below the
title which contains the blog post text. Finally, I add a paragraph
element to the footer element. In this paragraph element,
I add the copyright notice. The blog pages now semantically
described through the html document. I now save the file by pressing
Control and S or Command and S on Mac. I then right click the blog.html file and
select live preview to preview the file. The blog page looks good and
all thanks to proper semantic design that ensures accessibility and
search engine optimization. I'm sure that the Little Lemon Restaurant
will get lots of business through their blog, and their customers with disabilities will be
able to access the blog with no problems