Now you have the latest version of Python,
Visual Studio Code and all the necessary extensions and Pipenv. Let's set up a Django project
in a virtual environment. Let's create a new directory
called LittleLemon. Go to the project directory
in your terminal and type the common pipenv install django. You'll see a lot of information while
pipenv is setting up Django and creating the virtual environment for you. Now get started on your Django
project by activating this virtual environment created by pipenv
with the command pipenv shell. This will open a new shell session in
the virtual environment for your project. Then you can use Django admin to create
a new Django project in this directory. To do so apply the command django-admin startproject Little Lemon and a dot. Now that you have a new
Django project set up, go to the directory in your terminal. It's time to create a new Django Web for
your APA project. Use the command, python manage.py startapp Little LemonAPI
to create the app. You can see the Django Web has been
created with all the necessary migrations and configurations. To run the Django server,
write python manage.py runserver. This will run the server on
port number 8000 by default and you can access the Django
server at 127.0.0.1:8000. If you want to run it with
a different port number, you can do it like python manage.py
runserver and then port number. Now you learn how to use your new virtual
environment from the integrated terminal in VS code. To quickly apply commons
whenever necessary, open your project directory in VS code and access the command palette from the View
menu or by pressing command Shift np. Select Python, select Interpreter and select the one that pipenv has created for
you. You can see that with the name
of your project directory, this is a very important step. So be sure not to skip it. Now, open the terminal in
VS code from terminal menu. You can instantly see that VS code has
activated the virtual environment created for your project by pipenv. Now you can run all
the commands in this terminal like python manage.py
runserver without any problem. You can also open as many terminal
sessions as you want by clicking the plus icon and travel between
them from this terminal tab. Now you're all set to start
developing APIs with Django. With pipenv and Visual Studio Code, it was really easy to set up everything
quickly in such a short period of time.