By now you know that HTTP stands for Hypertext
Transfer Protocol, and that it's one of the most widely used
communication protocols for transferring data
across the Internet. Let's briefly refresh
your memory of HTTP and HTTPS before diving into
more complex topics. In this video, you
will learn about how HTTP and HTTPS work, HTTP methods, HTTP
requests and responses, and finally HTTP status codes. When you browse webpages, view images, or submit a form, your data is transmitted using HTTP or a secured version of it, which is called HTTPS. But how does that
transmission work for HTTP and HTTPS respectively? Communicating over HTTP requires at least two parts:
the client who requests some information
and the server who responds to this request
and serves the content. HTTPS is the secured
version of HTTP, which makes it better suited to instances where
security is a concern. But let's find out
how this works. With HTTPS, the client's computer
encrypts data before it starts its
journey to the server. The server then decrypts this client-side data
and processes it. But the web server also encrypts the response data and sends the encrypted content
back to your browser. Your browser then decrypts
the response and displays it. Since the content is encrypted, it is more secure and
very difficult to steal or retrieve
information from it. For submitting sensitive data, like credit card information, it is always preferable to use HTTPS to make sure
the data is secure. Now, let's move on to
some common HTTP methods. HTTP methods are also
called HTTP verbs. There are five methods
commonly used when accessing content over HTTP. They are: GET, which retrieves a resource; POST, used to send data to the server and then
create a record; PUT, which updates the
whole resource; PATCH, which are used to partially
update a resource; and DELETE, which
deletes a resource. Next are HTTP requests, which contain different
types of information that a user's browser sends
as encoded data. A typical HTTP request
includes the following, HTTP version type, for example, 1.1 or 2.0, URL or path, HTTP method, HTTP
request headers, and an optional HTTP body. But what are the HTTP request
headers and body again? Well, when you
submit a form like your username and password
to sign into a website, that data is passed
to the web server as the HTTP body as either a raw JSON string or
a form URL encoded string. HTTP headers, on the other hand, are a core part of every
HTTP request and may contain extra information
that helps the server make some decisions on how
to present the content. Examples of HTTP request
headers are cookies, user agents, and referrers. After an HTTP request, comes the HTTP response, which consists of
information that the browser uses to properly display the content and
the response body. The response contains the
resource that was requested. It also contains information like the length of the content, the content type, and
headers like cookies. It also contains ETags, the time when the
content was last modified, and finally, the response also contains some special numerical codes
called HTTP status codes. You've surely seen these
HTTP status codes, but you might not have
known what they are for. Well, they are not really messages addressed
to you, the user. They actually provide
extra information to your browser
about the resource. For example, if
everything is okay, the server sends 200. You will not be aware
of this because it doesn't even display
in your browser. Or if the requested
content can't be found, the server responds with
the 404 error code, which usually displays in the browser because there
was nothing else to show. Here is a range of error
codes and their meanings. 100-199 are used for
informational messages. The codes 200-299 are
successful responses, 300-399 provides
redirection information, 400-499 are client
error responses, and 500-599 are
server error codes. Server errors are
usually raised when the server-side code lacks proper error checks in the code, configuration mismatch, incorrect package
dependencies, and so on. The client-side errors
usually occur when the client makes a
bad API request with insufficient information in
the request body or when the client requests a resource that is not present
on the server. But take note that sometimes
the same status codes can convey different messages
in different contexts. For example, a 200
status code for a GET request means
the content was found. The same 200 code for a
PUT request means that the data transmission and
update process was successful. Similarly, for a DELETE request, this 200 status code means that the resource
was successfully deleted. Some of the most used status
codes are 200 and 201, 303 and 304, 400, 401, 403, and 404, as well as 500. You will learn more about what these status codes mean as
you move through the course. That brings you to the end of this HTTP recap video that refreshed your
memory about HTTPS, HTTP methods, requests,
responses, and status codes. These are the fundamental
concepts that you will use to develop sustainable
and manageable APIs.