By now you know the importance
of API endpoints and how they determine precisely what data
the server will send to your app. But a well-designed endpoint also conveys
valuable information about its purpose, which is helpful for developers and
the project itself in the long run. Your REST APIs Uniform Resource Identifier
or URI is one of the first things that
users will notice when a page loads. It is also called an endpoint or URL path. First impressions always
make a big difference and that is why naming conventions for
APIs are important. This video will help you name your API
endpoints for maximum clarity and impact. Let's get started. Say the Little Lemon restaurant menu app
needs APIs to display all their orders. A suitable API endpoint is forward slash
orders spelled with a lowercase o and not orders spelled with an uppercase O. So, your API endpoint should
always use lowercase letters and hyphens to separate multiple words. Using underscores or snake case, title
case or camel case, two separate words is not optimal because it makes the names
difficult to read and understand. There is an exception to the camel
case rule though if you're API accepts a variable, for example,
a userId or orderId you should always represent them in camel case and
wrap them in curly braces. For example, if you want to create
an API for a specific order, it should be forward slash
orders forward slash open curly brace order Id with
a capital I close curly brace. By adding forward slash menu
hyphen items to the API endpoint, you can fetch the menu items for
a specific order. Or you can fetch orders of a specific
customer by changing the Id to customerId wrapped in curly braces and
adding forward slash orders. Notice that the API endpoints
contain two different variables, orderId and customerId. And they are both denoted by
wrapping them in curly braces and writing Id with a capital I. Also, always try to use clear,
concise, and meaningful words in your API names to
make them easy to read right away. Next up, the use of forward slashes. If your project has related objects,
you should use forward slashes in your API URIs to indicate their
hierarchical relationship. An example of such a hierarchy is, a customer can have orders with order
items in a restaurant API project. Another example is a library
can have books with authors. So, to get the author of a particular
book, you can use the API endpoint, library forward slash
books forward slash and then bookId wrapped in curly braces,
and finally forward slash author. Or to get all books written by
a particular author, you can use an Id for the author instead and
add forward slash books. Notice how the relationships between
the customers and orders, the books, and the author are all indicated with
the forward slash in these API URIs. Another naming convention is that your API should always use a noun to indicate
the resources it is dealing with. An API that returns a collection of books
or a book should use the nouns books or books and bookId wrapped in curly braces. Similarly, to get the price of a book, you
should use the nouns books, bookId price. API endpoints with verbs
like getAllBooks or getUser userId are examples
of bad API names. That's because the resources and
a REST API endpoint should be always represented
with a noun and never with a verb. API endpoints such as users,
userId, delete or orders, orderId, save are also wrong
because they use HTTP requests as verbs to indicate
the action the API performs. Remember you should send an HTTP DELETE
request to users, userId to delete a user. And you should send an HTTP PUT or
PATCH request to orders, orderId to update the order. Endpoints that use standard CRUD operation
names such as create, read, update or delete should be avoided for two reasons,
the resources these endpoints represent should be nouns, and the appropriate
HTTP requests like GET, POST, PUT, or DELETE should be used with those endpoints
to perform the necessary manipulations. Something else to consider is whether
file names should be used in APIs, the restaurant API project can return
API results as XML and Json data. So, the question is,
can you design your endpoints as orders orderId.json to get the Json data? Or perhaps orders orderId.xml for
XML data? No, you should never use a file
name extension in your API. To solve this problem, you should accept the expected data
format as a query string parameter. So, if you want the output
in a Json format, you can add question mark format,
equal sign Json to the API endpoint. And for XML, you can use a question mark,
format, equal sign xml at the end. Similarly, to deliver
a minified version or source version of a JavaScript file, you use API endpoints like
/assets/Js/ jquery/3.6.0/min. Or /assets/js/moment/2.29 .4/original. But what if you need to filter
a collection or perform a search? For instance, the Little Lemon restaurant
has many items on its menu but you are only interested in appetizers,
to filter the results, you should always accept the data
as a query string parameter. In a URL everything you send after
a question mark is a query string. Remember the API endpoint menu items,
returns all menu items but to only get the appetizers,
you should pass the category name to the endpoint as question mark
category equal sign appetizer. Consequently, if you design APIs
that can be filtered this way, other developers on your team will
derive that to get a list of mains or desserts they can change the endpoint
to question mark, category, equal sign main or question mark category,
equal sign dessert. This is the beauty of a good and
consistent API naming strategy. Another best practice is that when you
share your API endpoints with your team or the public, you should never add a trailing slash
to the end of the API endpoint. What this means is that API names that
end with a forward slash, like orders, orderId, and curly braces followed
by a forward slash is bad practice. So is sports basketball teams followed
by another forward slash at the end. Simply end the API without
the forward slash at the end. So, if you want to become
a fluent back-end developer, you need to pay attention
to your endpoints and make sure you use well-designed and
user-friendly APIs. Let's recap the best practices
discussed in this video. Use lowercase URI formatting. Indicate hierarchical
relationships with a forward slash. Use nouns for resource names. Avoid file name extensions. Furthermore, use query parameters for
data types and don't use a trailing slash. Finally, always follow
a consistent naming strategy and standard API naming conventions. Well-chosen names for API endpoints
can significantly improve an entire project by making it easier for
other developers to use your APIs. And now you are well on your way to
creating good API endpoint names.