Webpage design can
become time-consuming, especially if you work
with dynamic webpages. When building a web
application in Django, templates provide developers
with many benefits. One of the main benefits
is that they promote code reusability and
render dynamic content. In this video, you
will learn how to create a template using
Django templates, and the Django
template language. You will explore
the steps to render static HTML elements that display dynamic content
from a Python dictionary. As you have learned
previously, in Django, developers use templates
to display dynamic data. Let us now explore this
in a little more detail. The view functions retrieve the data from some
data structure, our database connected
to our application. Developers use templates and the Django template language to display this dynamic data. Templates contains
static HTML and dynamic data rendered
by the render function. The render function takes
three parameters: request, path, and a dictionary
of variables. Let's explore this in a
little more detail now. Request, represents the initial
HTTP request to object. Path, represents the
relative path of the HTML file to the template
directory or folder. The dictionary contains
the variables as keys that the template can
use to display dynamic data. Now you know about the structure
of the render function. Let's explore how it
returns data to the user. The render function returns
a string as part of the HTTP response object
that the web page renders. Since this process is created inherently with Python code, there is flexibility to define and pass variables
to the template. To create a template
inside Django, you can take the
following steps. First, you define a view that returns the
render function. Next, update the URL configurations
inside URL patterns, then ensure that you configure the settings for templates
and installed apps. Next, create a HTML
page containing static HTML and dynamic data using the Django
template language. Finally, make sure
you pass the name of the template page and dictionary as arguments inside
the render function. Now that you know
about the process of rendering a template, let's open VS Code and
explore the steps further. In this example, let me demonstrate how to create
a template that returns HTML content using a dictionary for the about page
of Little Lemon. To begin, create a view
inside the views.py file. For this example, let's
create an about page, for the Little Lemon website. The first step is to create a view function called about, and pass the request
object inside it. Next, return a render function and pass the request object, followed by the HTML
page named about.html, which will display the content. The next step is to ensure that the URL
configuration files are updated in the urls.py files at both the
project and app levels. The code looks good. Now go to the
settings.py file and add templates inside
the DIRS key. Then you need to make sure
that the app is registered. Next, you need to create
the about.html page. Go to the main
project directory and create a folder
called templates. Now right-click on
the templates folder and create a file
named about.html. Notice that within
the about.html file, by typing an exclamation mark and selecting the first option, VS Code will
automatically create the code for a basic HTML page. Inside the body tag, add the heading element, h2 with the text about. Save the file and run
the server by typing Python3 manage.py runserver
and press "Enter". Launch the browser at the local host URL and
add about at the end. Notice that the template is
rendered from the content you created in the about.html file. Now the template is working. Let's use it to create
some dynamic content. To do this, first
go to the views.py file and create a dictionary
called about_content. Next create a key value
pair named about and colon, followed by a string containing additional content about
the little lemon website. Now, save the file. The next step is to pass the dictionary inside
the render function, to give the template access
to the dictionary object. Now, once again, save the file. Next, go back to the
about.html file, then add a paragraph tag with the keyword about inside
double curly braces. This is the key inside
the dictionary object. Now, save the file, go to the browser again
and refresh the page. Notice that the page updates and the additional
content is displayed. Now, if you modify content inside the dictionary, save it, and refresh the page again, notice that the content
is automatically updated. Finally, you can
add some styling, such as a background
color to your HTML. Save the file and
refresh the web page. The page now reflects
the styling updates. This example demonstrates
how to create a HTML template in Django, with some static content
inside a heading, and some dynamic content
inside a paragraph. In this video, you learned
how to create a template using Django templates and
the Django template language.