Web frameworks are
software applications designed to provide us with
a standard way to build, deploy, and support
web applications that we can use on the web. They help developers to focus
on application logic and routines by automating
redundant tasks, which helps cut
development time. They also provide
easy structuring and default model so
they are reliable, stable, and easily maintainable, saving time and effort. Web frameworks are primarily
written in high-level code, which removes the overhead
required for understanding concepts such as sockets,
threading, and protocols. As a result, time
is better spent working on application
logic instead of routines. Python is a popular framework
in web development, thanks to several features
such as good documentation, abundant libraries and packages,
ease of implementation, code reusability, a secure framework, and
easy integrations. The different frameworks in Python are efficient and make it easy to handle tasks
such as form processing, routing requests,
connection with databases, and user
authentication. They also provide debugging and testing tools to
handle profiling, test coverage, and
test automation, etc. There are mainly three types
of web frameworks in Python. These are fullstack,
microframeworks and asynchronous. Let's explore each briefly now. Fullstack frameworks are
considered a one-stop solution and usually include all the required
functionalities. This can include
form generations and validators,
template layouts, HTTP request handling, WSGI interfaces for
connection with web servers and database
connection handling. Some of the most popular
Python frameworks are Django, Web2py, and Pyramid. Microframeworks are
a lighter version of fullstacks that do not offer as many patterns and
functionalities. They are usually used in smaller web projects
and building APIs. Flask, Bottle, Dash, and CherryPy are some of the
popular microframeworks. As the name suggests, asynchronous framework
types are used to handle a large sets of
concurrent connections. They are mainly built using Async IO networking libraries. Growler, AIOHTTP, and Sanic, are some of the
names you'll encounter. Choosing a framework can
depend on many factors. This can include things like
available documentation, scalability, flexibility,
and integration. While this categorization
is pretty broad, it's important to remember
that each framework in Python has its own unique set of
features and functionalities. This can make certain
frameworks more suitable than others
for a specific project. Two of the most widely
used are flask and Django. Let's explore each briefly now. Django is a high
level framework that encourages clean design
and rapid development. It's a full-stack framework that's rich in features
and libraries. It's secure and has templating systems and
third party supports. It primarily getting popularity due to its rapid
deployment speed. You can quickly build
scalable apps without extensive knowledge of
low-level programming. Flask is a microframework and better used for
smaller projects. It's easy to learn,
simple to use, and as a large
library of add-ons. In this lesson,
you learned about web frameworks and
the different types. You also learned about the different web frameworks in Python such as Flask and Django.