Python is one of the best
languages to use for various data science
projects and applications. In this video, you'll
learn about some of the commonly used
Python libraries in data analysis
and data science. The last decade has seen exponential growth in
all data science areas. The demand for data analysis and scientists is
continually increasing, as it's a requirement that
developers to incorporate scientific and data
analysis into their code. Python has emerged as one of the most popular languages
with data scientists. One of the main reasons
for its popularity is the large number of different
open source packages. These have been developed by
thousands of contributors collaborating to provide
free, usable resources. Many packages are
top-rated because they are efficient and provide
outstanding functionality. In no particular
order of preference, these packages include NumPy, Scipy, Matplotlib,
and Scikit-learn. As an example, Scikit-learn is used for predictive learning, and is built on top of
other popular packages. It consists of various
supervised and unsupervised machine
learning algorithms for classification, regression, and SVMs. Modelling data is the primary
focus of this library, and it provides popular
models such as clustering, feature extraction
and selection, validation and
dimensionality reduction. Pandas is an acronym for
Python data analysis, and this is a data analysis
and manipulation tool. It's used primarily
for working with datasets and provides
functions for cleaning, analyzing, and
manipulating data. Using it, I can compare different columns and
find the arithmetic mean, max and min values. The primary data
structures used in pandas or series and Dataframes. While series or
single-dimensional and can be compared to
a column in a table, dataframes are
multi-dimensional and can potentially store
tables efficiently. They are agnostic to the
datatypes being stored. Pandas most common applications
are reading CSV files and JSON objects and using them within Python code
for faster retrieval. Pandas are known
to bring speed and flexibility to data analysis. Pandas library is
normally imported by the code import pandas as pd. NumPy stands for
numerical Python and it's a powerful library
forming the base for libraries such
as Scikit-learn, Scipy, Plotly, and Matplotlib. Python scientists use
the abilities of NumPy, especially when working in scientific domains
such as signal, image processing, statistical computing,
and quantum computing. NumPy carries out the
calculations needed for algebraic areas such as Fourier
transforms and matrices. The backbone data
structure in NumPy is called ND array or
N-dimensional array, which substitutes
the conventional use of lists in Python, and is a much faster
solution than lists. The dimensions in
NumPy are called axes and the number of such
axes is called a rank. Conventionally,
NumPy is imported with import NumPy as np. Matplotlib is the visualization
library used in Python. It can be used to create static, interactive and animated
visualizations. Many third-party
tools such as ggplot and seaborn extends the
functions of matplotlib. These functions are located inside the pyplot stub package. Matplotlib is imported with import matplotlib.pyplot as plt. An example such as libraries to0 uses the matplotlib and NumPy
libraries to for instance, display a graphical
representation of students in a class or the distribution
of their scores. To recap what you've
learned in this video, you should now know about the most commonly used
Python data analysis and data science packages.