Artificial Intelligence or AI, is broadly
about making machines think like humans. Data science primarily focuses on
the management and exploration of data which may include media such
as text, audio, images and video. Machine learning or Ml is a subsection
of AI and deals with algorithms for training and
generating insights from data. Many fields utilize machine learning. Some of the most widely used areas
are natural language processing, deep learning, sentiment analysis,
recommended engines, computer vision and speech recognition. With the amount of text, image and
video data available today, data science and AI in particular
are in greater demand than ever. Python is one of the most popular
languages used in these domains. The reasons are, seeing tactical
efficiency and readability, flexibility with different languages,
frameworks and operating systems welcoming and
large community of developers. Ability to build ML models without
having to understand the intricacies. Use a friendly debug and
testing tools and modular structure. These will promote the development of
many primarily open source libraries and frameworks. It's important not to get confused
with the terms, packages, library and frameworks. A package is a collection of modules and
both library and framework are often used
interchangeably with packages. Libraries can also be a collection of
packages with specific purpose, whereas the term framework is usually used where
certain flow and architecture is involved. It's important to remember that all of
these pieces of python code are used with the help of import statements. Some of the most popular Ml libraries
in use today are in the areas of deep learning and neural networks. Computer vision and image recognition. Natural language processing,
data visualization and web scraping. It's important to understand that
these are broad categorizations. Most of the libraries associated with them
are not restricted to a particular field. Every project is unique and
should be treated as such. The right selection of the library
can save precious time when coding. In this video, you learned about
machine learning libraries. Many fields use machine learning and
those fields like deep learning and neural networks rely on open source
machine learning libraries that make developers work easier. These libraries are collections
of packages and the selection of the right library
can save you time when coding. So in the future, think carefully about
which library you should pick for a project to make sure
that it suits your needs.