Packages are bundled
collections of modules in Python serving
a specific purpose. In Python, there are currently tens of thousands of
packages to choose from, and in this video, you will learn about some of
the most popular. You can think of this
collection of packages like a traditional
real-world library. Each package is a
book or magazine, and this library gets
bigger every day. In programming, a package
is a directory or folder, and in the same way, a module
is a file or document. You import packages
in the same way as a module using the
import statements. Like with the import statements, it's important to remember
that unless defined correctly, the import serves no purpose. For example, suppose you want to import a package named foo, the import statement on its own will not serve any purpose. It needs to be in a format
like from foo import a, where foo is the
package and a is the module containing
the functions you want. Exploring the packages
directory structure or referring to code blocks
online can save time. To work with packages in Python, it's important to know that PIP is the default
package manager, and Python Package Index, or PyPI is the package index where you can find
unpublished packages. Python has an extensive
collection of packages. As a developer starting out, it can be overwhelming, but it's important
to understand what Python is most widely
used for today. The major application areas
for Python are data science, AI and machine learning, web frameworks,
application development, automation, and
hardware interfacing. With this in mind, packages can be grouped into categories. For example, built-in packages, data science, machine
learning and AI, we and GUI development. Let's explore each
of these briefly now starting with
built-in packages. These are packages that
don't need to be installed separately and can be used as soon as you've
installed Python. Almost every project uses one or more of these
built-in packages, so, it's worth getting
to know them well. The most popular ones
are OS, SYS, CSV, JSON, importlib, re, math, and intertools. In the world of data science, the most popular Python
packages are NumPy, SciPy, NLTK, and Pandas. This's what we use for data
exploration and manipulation. Other packages like Open CV and matplotlib are used for image processing and
data visualization. Within the world of
machine learning or ML and artificial
intelligence or AI, the most popular
packages are TensorFlow, PyTorch, and Keras. PyTorch and Keras are
currently the most popular for deep learning and neural
network implementation. There are other
packages such SciPy, Scikit-learn, and Theano. Choosing which package to use will depend on the scale and scope of the project and how familiar you become with
the packaging question. Let's move on to
web development. Python today is
primarily used for ML, AI, and web development. The most popular
packages are flask, which is a lightweight
micro-framework, and Django, which is a
full-stack framework. Other popular web
development packages include cherry pie, pyramid, beautiful
soup, and selenium. There are also other
packages for robotics, game development, and
other specialized domains. For any domain you
want to work in, you'll find several Python
packages relevant to it. While no one package may be a perfect fit for your projects, the open source community of Python developers is working relentlessly to fill the gaps. As I begin a Python coder, most functions you need
will be met by one package. To continue expanding your
knowledge of Python packages, you should think of a
project you'd like to create an experiment with the packages I've mentioned in this video. In this video, you learned
about packages in Python. You covered built-in
packages and some of the most popular
packages in use today.