Let's say that you're thinking
of building a web app. You probably want
a user-friendly, mobile-friendly experience. Then you should consider using single-page applications
or SPAs to build a unique, speedy, and engaging
experience for your users. You're probably using
many SPAs every day. Think of your favorite
social network or messaging app or
the map application you use to find
local businesses. The great user
experience you get is driven by single-page
applications. So, what exactly is an
SPA? How does it work? How is it different from
a traditional website? Let's first explore how
traditional website works. Before the advent of modern
JavaScript frameworks, most websites were implemented as multi-page applications. But this makes traditional applications resource
intensive to web servers because sending
entire web pages for every request consumes excessive bandwidth and uses CPU time to generate
dynamic pages. If your website is complex, the site browsing experience
may appear slow to users. It will be even
slower if they have a poor or limited
internet connection. To solve this problem, many web developers build their
web applications as SPAs. It's called single-page,
but that doesn't mean your website has
only one page of content. What it means is that there is only one HTML page that gets sent from the
server to the browser, but that page will
update its content as your users interact
with your website. A SPA allows the user
to interact with the website without
the application needing to download
entire new web pages. Instead, it rewrites the current web page as the
user interacts with it. The result is a browsing
experience that feels faster and more
responsive to user input. When the user navigates to the web application
in the browser, the web server returns the necessary resources
to run the application. A SPA has two approaches to
serving code and resources. The first is called bundling, and the second
approach is known as lazy loading or code splitting. With bundling, when the browser requests
the application, the server returns and
loads all necessary HTML, CSS, and JavaScript immediately. With lazy loading,
the browser requests the application and
the server returns only the minimum HTML, CSS, and JavaScript needed
to load the application. Additional resources are
downloaded as required. For example, when a user navigates a specific
section of the application, both approaches are valid. The choice depends on the size, complexity, and bandwidth requirements of the application. For instance, with the
bundling approach, if your application is complex and has a lot of resources, your bundles will grow quite large and take a long
time to download. You could end up
with a site that is slower than a traditional
web application. Let's explore an example. Imagine you have a site
dedicated to reviewing movies, people never know what to
watch next so you decide to install a feature that randomly suggests the movie for a user. You create a web page that has a what to watch next button. You want to display
a random movie name when the button is clicked. In a traditional website, when the button is clicked, the browser will send a post
request to the web server. The web server returns a new web page containing
the button and movie name. The web browser then
renders the new page. In an SPA, when the
button is clicked, the browser will send a post
request to the web server. The web server will
return a JSON object. The application
reads the object and updates by displaying the
text of the movie name. That's more efficient
because the rest of the page remains
as it was and it's content does not need to be sent by the server and
rendered by the browser. But what if you need to
update the majority of the page to display a
different form of content? Well, let's explore
that scenario. Suppose you are building
a web application that has two pages. One page shows the
latest news and the other page shows the
current user's profile page. Navigation bar at the top of the site contains a
link to each page. In the traditional websites, when the user clicks
a profile link, the web browser sends the
request to the web server. The web server generates the entire HTML page and sends it back
to the web browser. The web browser then
renders a new web page. In a single-page application, different pages are
broken into templates, also known as views. Each view will have HTML code that can be updated
by the application. For instance, the profile
page would have a username, a first name, and a last name. The web browser
sends the request to the web server and the
web server sends back a file called a
JavaScript Object Notation or JSON object. This contains only the
data to be displayed, such as the user's first
name and last name, and the SPA will
update the HTML. This is much smaller than
sending an entire web page. The web browser then updates
the web page by inserting the template with items replaced by the values
in the JSON object. For your next website, consider whether its
complexity suits a traditional
multi-page application or would perform
better as an SPA. Remember that a
single-page application has two methods of
delivering resources. Delivering all resources
immediately or delivering resources
dynamically as required. If all resources are delivered when the
application is loaded, the single-page application must include the views for every
page on initial load. If resources are
loaded dynamically, the single-page application
requests the views as required and stores views in the browser for
subsequent requests. Now you can compare some
popular SPA websites to traditional ones and judge the performance
difference for yourself.