When you develop a
web application, much of the content is stored somewhere like in a database. As a result, a common
task is to provide an administration or admin site as part of the application. The purpose of this
admin side is to allow certain users to administer and manage the data
of the application. In this video, you will
learn how to activate Django's admin interface and
how to use its core feature. You may remember this
when you covered the topic where the
path configurations for the admin were set by default inside the URL
configuration files. Now, suppose the owners of Little Lemon have
asked you to store all of the website content in a database so it can be updated
by the restaurant staff. For example, managers can use the admin site to
add or edit content. That content is displayed
on the public site. For developers, building such as site for each project
can be tedious work. Django solves the problem
by automatically creating a unified admin interface for
site administrators to add, edit and delete content, such as users, permissions and
database entries. This process is automated
as the admin interface directly links to the models in the project once registered. The admin interface
is usually a part of a large web application to help the administrator perform
certain administrative tasks. The tasks such as creating
and managing users, controlling access permission,
and forming user groups. Django reads the models
declared in the project and from the metadata of
models declared in a project, it quickly builds an
easy-to-use interface. It's important to remember
that the admin site isn't intended to be
used by site visitors. It's for site managers. In addition to the interface, another powerful feature of
Django is that it provides a ready-to-use admin interface
named Django admin. As you have already learned, you use this command
line utility for administrative tasks. The Django admin utility is executed from inside
the terminal. It is enabled and assigned
to a project by default when you run a command such as start project inside Django. As the admin interface depends
on django.com.admin app, you'll find it in the
installed app section of the settings.py file, along with certain other apps. Databases are an inherent part of building a web application. Using Django and Django admin provides a
convenient means of accessing and modifying
these databases from a friendly user interface. Before you access
this interface, you first need to create an admin user that provides you with the necessary
credentials. Let's explore how to do
that now and to have an overview of the
Django admin interface. First, you must create a user. For that, run the
command python3, manage.py, then add the
keyword createsuperuser. Next, in the username prompt, you must create a username. For example, add John
and press "Enter". Notice that if a user
is already created, Django will throw
an error stating that the username
is already taken. Now I create a user called
Adrian and press "Enter". Next, another prompt appears
for the email address. Let's type adrian@littlelemon.com
and press "Enter". Then enter a password
and press "Enter". Notice that because this
is not a strong password, Django displays a
warning stating that the password
should be more secure. You can ignore this
for now and press Y, which stands for yes. This will let us continue. But it's important to know that in a real-world application, the password should be strong and meet
security requirements. Once you create the superuser, run the command
to run the server and open the default
URL in the browser. Next, go to the
assigned path and add forward/admin to the
URL and press "Enter". Notice that the Django
administration page loads with the login form where you are prompted to enter
username and password. Type the username and
password that you created earlier and
click the Login button. After logging in, notice that there is a basic interface. The first option gives an overview of the
groups and users. There is already a sample
model named reservations. Below that, there is a list of recent actions which are
empty at the moment. You have an option to add and change these configurations. If, let's say you go to the reservations model
and click "Change", notice that there are
a few entries listed. You have an option
to directly update the reservations data using
the form or add new entries. You can also delete the selected
reservation by clicking the checkbox next to the names. If you go back to the main page, there are other
options to add or modify the users
that already exist. For example, if you
click a specific user, you can change the
username and password, the personal info, and also assign the user to some groups. Additionally, you can designate specific permissions
that the user can have, which would be listed below. There are also other
additional details such as last login information and
days of joining for the user. You can also go to the
top of the page and check the history of the user and
the changes they have made. The utility of this might
not be immediately evident. But as you proceed
in the course, you will realize how using the Django admin panel can
save a lot of time for the developer by providing
an interface that is easy to modify inside
your project and model. In this video, you
learned how to start Django's admin
interface site. You also learned how it can
be used to add users, groups, models, and assign permissions, which you will learn more
about later. Good job.