In most apps, users
are allocated different roles that allow them to perform certain actions. To enable these actions, they need to have the relevant permission granted to them. Think about the
following scenario. When you visit a restaurant, you're not allowed to
go into the kitchen. However, if you are
a member of staff, you are allowed to
go into the kitchen. Web applications have
a similar concept for controlling which users are
allowed to do which action. This is called permissions,
and in this video, you will learn all about user, and model permissions in Django. The Django framework has an in-built system for
handling permissions. This authentication
system has features for both authentication
and authorization, coupled for ease of use. For a user to perform
a certain action, they need to have the relevant permission granted to them. Before you explore permissions, it is important to
note that a user in Django can be one of
three classifications, namely a superuser, a
staff user, or a user. Much like other
components of Django, users in Django are
Python objects. The specific type of
user is characterized by special attributes that are
set inside the user object. Let me tell you more about
the classifications. A super user is a top level user or
administrator of the system. This type of user possesses
permission to add, change, or delete other users, as well as perform operations on all the data in the project. A staff type user is allowed to access Django
admin interface. However, a staff user doesn't automatically get the
permission to create, read, update, and delete
data in the Django admin, it must be given explicitly. Note that a super user is
a staff user by default. Everyone else is irregular
user by default, a user is not authorized
to use the admin site. Users are marked as
active by default. A user may be marked
as inactive if it's authentication fails or has been banned for some reason. While you can create the user through the admin interface, it can also be done
through the Django shell. The permission
mechanism is handled by the django.contrib.auth app. You can use the
create user function to create a new user object. Once the user is created, you can grant a certain status to a user to become
a staff member. To grant the staff status, set the user is staff
property to true. How do you create a superuser? Use a command directly
inside the Django shell. When prompted, a password is
assigned to this super user, followed by an authentication. Go to the admin interface
and view the list of users. The new user appears
in the list. Remember that the superuser has every permission
in the system, whether it is custom permissions or Django created permissions. There are several places where specific permission
settings can be enabled, for example, to a
specific model or object. How do you set
permissions in a model? As you create models in
your Django application, Django automatically
creates, add, change, and delete
and view permissions. Permissions are named using
the app action model pattern. App is the name of
the Django app. Action is add, change, delete or view and model is the name of the
model in lowercase. Assume that a Django
app called my app is created in
the current project, and it has a model with the
name my model declared in it. You can now apply your
newly acquired knowledge. What will the permissions be? The permissions on this
model will be as follows. Myapp.add_my model,
myapp.change_my model, myapp.delete_my model. Lastly, myapp.view_ my model. In Python code, it is
possible to check if a user has a certain type or
permission enabled on it. To do this, you can use
the has_perm function, which returns true or false. For example, if the requesting user doesn't have the appropriate
permissions, you can raise a
permission denied error instead of returning the
normal HTTP response. Assigning permissions
to each user individually is a tedious task, especially if you have
large numbers of users. Fortunately, Django
has a solution. You can manage permissions to sets of users in Django groups. That proves to be very useful. Now what is a group? In Django, a group is a list of permissions that can be
assigned to one or more users. A user can belong to
any number of groups. To go back to the
restaurant example, you might have a group for kitchen staff and another
group for waiters. When you create
or modify a user, simply choose the desired group. All the permissions
listed in the group will be automatically
assigned to the user. It is important to
note that you can still manually add
permissions to users, even if they belong to a group. In this video, you learned about the user permissions and
model permissions in Django. You can give permissions to
a user while creating it in the admin panel or from
the shell interface. Using groups is a
convenient way of enabling similar sets or permissions
to multiple users. To enforce a permission while
executing a view function, you can use the app permission
required decorator.