In this video, you will learn how to
create a basic reservation system for the front desk of Little Lemon. You will explore how to use the admin.py
file to register a model and add users and
groups using Django administration. Employees at Little Lemon have been
manually entering reservation details on a sheet. However, they want a more
efficient way to do it. First, let me open the models at
py file which contains a model and notice it's already
populated with some code. It contains a reservation
class with five attributes. The attributes consist of
the name of the customer, their contact details and
the time of their arrival. The final two attributes will be to
count the number of guests and for some additional notes. Next I need to open
the settings.py file and ensure that the app is added
to the installed apps list. Everything looks good so
I just need to make the migrations, and I'm ready to create
the reservation system. The first thing I need to do
is to create a super user. I do this using the command
python manage.py createsuperuser. I enter user names such as meta, and again enter an email address
such as admin@littlelemon.com. I will use a weak password for
this demonstration but it's important to know that you should always use
a strong password in production. Notice that Django sends a prompt for
password validation, I type y and the super user is created successfully. One final thing I need to do before
running the server is register the super user. Okay so now I'm ready to
work in the admin.py file. First I import the reservation
model using the import statement. On a new line,
I type admin.site.register, and inside the parentheses the name
of the table reservation. Now I can save this file and
run the server. In the browser I opened Django at
the default URL and add /admin to it. I press Enter and notice that a new page
loads with a login form containing user name and password fields. So I entered the credentials I set up
earlier and click on the login button. The default Django administration
page loads containing two sections, site administration and my app. In site administration, notice there
are links for groups and users. Then in the my apps section,
notice a link for the reservations table I created earlier. If I click the link notice that
there are no reservations added and this means that the table is empty. So let me first create some reservations. I click on the add reservation button and
now an add reservation form displays. I enter some details such as name and
phone number. For the time input I can click on
the word Now to get the current time and then modify its format. I will set the reservation
count to four people, and finally I will add a note such as
we would prefer an outdoor table. I want to add another reservation, so I
click on the Save and add another button. Notice that its success message
displays and the form has been reset. So let me add another
reservation quickly now. I add the name Charlotte and
a phone number and time. I will set the reservation
count to two people and for the notes I will type a message like,
we would like a seat by the window. Okay, so I'm finished with adding the data
and I can just click on the Save button. Once I save notice that two entries
have been created which are displayed as reservation objects. However, this does not display much
information about the reservation, so let me fix this. Back in the models.py file,
I can use the str method to override the default straining representation
of the object and define my own. I want this representation to
be the name of the customer. So using the return statement, I type
self.name which will display the value stored in the name
attribute of the object. I save this file and then go back to
the browser and refresh the web page. Notice that the name of the reservation
objects have now been renamed according to the customer. If I click on the customer name, the web form will load where I can
edit the details if I want to. There are also options to delete the
object and explore the version history. Now let me navigate to the app. Notice I have options to add a new
table or change the current one. Okay, now let's explore the users and
groups of Django administration. I click on the home link and
first let's explore users. Notice that there is just one
user which I added earlier. I can add another user by
clicking on the Add user button. I type Little Lemon staff and
the user name input and now the password. Notice that I may try and add a weak
password Django will not let me, so let me add a password
that's a bit stronger. I click the Save button and
notice that the user has been added. Once created, I can add personal info for the user such as first name,
last name and email address. In the permission section, I assigned
permission such as active staff and super user. Recall that users with the permission
of staff can access the admin page. It's also possible to add users to groups
but it's beyond the scope of this video, you will learn how to do this later. I can also set some permissions. For example, I select that this user
can only view and change the log entry. To the right, notice that these
are the added user permissions. Finally, details for the last login and date joined are displayed in
the important date section. Let me save this and once I go to the
user's page again, notice that the staff, Little Lemon user with
the name of Jean was added. I can filter users according
to super user status. So if I select this option, notice that
only the meta super user is displayed. I can also create groups by
selecting the groups link and clicking on the Add group button. On the add group page I can assign
the name of the group such as staff. Then I can set their missions for
the staff member and save them. And this allows me to configure which
Little Lemon staff can access the admin panel and make the reservations. Finally, I can preview the table in
VS Code using the SQLite Explorer. If I click on myapp >
Reservations > Show table, Notice that these entries
are updated in the table. So once I make the changes
in Django administration, they're reflected in the table. In this video, you learned how to
create a basic reservation system for the front desk of Little Lemon. You explored how to use the admin.py file
to register a model and add users and groups using Django Administration.