Welcome to the capstone
project course of the back-end developer
specialization. The capstone project for
this course is based on a scenario involving the
Little Lemon restaurant. In particular, the owners
of Little Lemon want to extend the reserve a
table functionality on the Little Lemon website. This is where you come in. In this course, you will
learn how to build a web API. In doing so, you
will demonstrate a wide range of skills by composing an API that allows users to reserve a table for
the Little Lemon restaurant. This course will
guide you through the process of
building the app by combining all the skills and technologies you've learned throughout this specialization. Now, you may be wondering how
this course is structured. Well, the course consists
of four modules. Starting the project,
project functionality, security and testing,
and project assessment. In the first module, starting the project,
you'll do exactly that. Get started with the
capstone project. This will include a brief
recap of and links to content in the Django course
you have already completed. You'll start by setting
up a coding environment, a Django project and a Git repository for
the project on GitHub, so you are ready to proceed with the development phase
of the project. You'll also briefly recap the concepts of URLs and routes, and set up the static
routes to serve static content using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Module 2 is all about the functionality of
the capstone project. Based on the database schema for the table booking system, you will code the models and API using the Django rest framework. The front end will
query and interact with the table reservation
API to send and retrieve data from
a MySQL database. You will consolidate your
knowledge about databases and models to work with
the MySQL database. Then using the Django
rest framework, you will implement
the menu API to return a list of
food menu items. Next is Module 3 which
covers security and testing. In this module,
you will practice your skills in setting
up user authentication. The user requirements are
a user registration page, a user login page, and a logout button. You must also set up security, so the user must be logged
in to book a table. In the final module, you'll have the
chance to reflect on all you have learned and
your accomplishments, then you will complete the final project for the
Little Lemon website. Once the project is complete, you'll have the opportunity
to perform a self-review of your project and a peer review of other learners projects. You will assess the app's
ability to reserve a table, assessing the projects in terms
of back-end architecture, functionality, design and code. With all of this to
look forward to, I'm sure you are eager to begin. Let's get started
with your project.