Django is a great framework
for developing APIs, but there are always
areas that can be improved to speed up
development time. That's where Django Rest
framework or DRF comes in. DRF is a toolkit built on top of the Django
web framework. It comes with many helpful
utility classes and objects that can help developers build robust APIs quickly. In this video, you
will be introduced to the Django Rest Framework
and you will learn the benefits of using
DRF over plain Django. Let's examine how using DRF can save you time
during development. DRF is a Django utility app that bridges your
regular Django app, the Django framework, and the Object Relational
Mapping or ORM Library, which communicates
with the database. Although Django's built in templating system is great for developing web applications, DRF provides more
functionalities. Because when it comes
to API development, you need to be able to deal
with other data types like JSON and XML and this is
where DRF comes in handy. You will frequently need to retrieve data from the database, process it, and then represent it to your
clients as mainly JSON. This conversion process
is called serialization. One of the DRF's
biggest benefits. With DRF, you don't
have to worry about transforming your database
models into a RESTful API. It takes care of
that for you with its support for data
conversion utility classes. Let's examine some benefits of using the Django Rest Framework. It's pretty straightforward
to integrate DRF into your
existing Django app. With just a few changes
in the settings, you can have a fully
functional Django app powered by DRF almost instantly. DRF comes with an
API viewer that allows you to send
different HTTP methods with data and
evaluate the output without needing an external
application like Insomnia. This API viewer has
limited features, but it works when you want to quickly experiment
with your APIs. DRF comes with its own
request and response objects, which are wrappers of the
regular Django HTTP response and HTTP request object, but offers more flexibility on processing data in and out. The status module has a list of human-readable
HTTP Status codes. When you use the status
module from DRF, you don't need to send
status codes like 404 or 200 with your responses. Instead, you can use a readable representation
like status, Status.HTTP_ 200_OK or
Status.HTTP_404_NOT. FOUND. You can find
a link to a list of all the status codes in the additional resources
reading of this lesson, the Django Rest Framework's
built-in view set classes, make it quick and easy to
create a functional CRUD. You can extend the
workflow if you need to. But for basic data manipulation, the view set from the
Django Rest Framework works really well. You will have the
full support for all the necessary HTTP
methods out of the box. The DRF package comes
with a number of built-in serializers to help with data conversion
between models. Serializers also support converting other
non-ORM objects. This can be a great time-saver. A serializers make it easy
to convert complex data into native Python datatypes that can be quickly
rendered into JSON, XML, or other content types. Serializers and DRF also provide a method called
deserialization, which converts
requested data and connects them back to
the existing models. This deserialization
process also validates the user input to
ensure no data corruption. DRF also comes with
great support for modern API
authentication systems. Building an
authentication layer is a complex process and
usually takes time. But with DRF and some
supporting packages, you can effortlessly develop an authentication system
for your Django app. You can also enable social connection where your
users can authenticate and authorize themselves using
an external provider like Facebook and then
consume the APIs. In this video, you have learned about the Django Rest Framework, also called DRF, and some of its
benefits to help you quickly develop
your API projects. Now it's time to
get hands-on with installing and setting up DRF.