At this point in this course, you've already used the API
View Decorator a few times. Of course, there are benefits to using it in your regular
function based views. It certainly makes a
difference when it comes to API
development in Django. Let's examine some of the benefits of this
API View Decorator a little closer now by using this decorator in your DRF apps. Open the views by file from the bookless project you
created in the previous video. Do you notice the
API View Decorator before the books function? To use this API view decorator, you must add at API
underscore view, open and close brackets before
the function definition. To use the API view decorator, input the APA view function from the rest underscore framework
dot decorators module. You should also import
the response class from the rest underscore
framework dot response module because it comes with benefits over triangles
native HTTP response. The API view decorator
allows you to use this response
class from the DRF. One of the most
significant benefits of using the API view
decorator is that it turns your standard AP output into a nice brow
sable API interface. But you must use the response
class to get this view. Open the views. by file and
change the boot function. Remove that at API decorator and replace the response with the HTTP response and browse the books endpoint for
slash API, slash books. The AP output is
there as plain text. Now, go to the API
decorator back and return the response
instead of HTTP response, then revisit the endpoint. Now you have a
polished interface. This is the browsable API
view coming from the DRF. Another great benefit of using this decorator
is that you can specify which HTTP methods
your function should support. Just pass all those
HTTP method names as an array to the API
view decorator function. Now the books endpoint
supports HTTP post methods. Let's revisit the
books and point. Did you notice the change? Now, the post methods is showing in the
allowed method list. There is another change
in this view after you've passed the post in the API
view decorator function. A new content area is now showing at the
bottom of this page from where you can pass a json object and make a postcard
to this endpoint. You can do this right from
the browser without using any external tool like
Postman or insomnia. There are two blue buttons in the upper right corner
labeled options and get. By clicking on the
Options button, you can view helpful information about the current API endpoint, such as which rendered DRF
users to dispel the API put, what types of data this
API accepts, and so on. Clicking on the gear button
refreshes the whole page. You can also display
Rogers and output by selecting json from the drop down beside this gate button. The API view decorator
also allows you to implement Throttling
or Rate-limiting, by which you can define
how many times someone can access this API in
a given period. You'll learn more about
throttling later in this course. The API view decorator also
helps you to authentic your endpoints so that only authenticated users can call this API endpoints,
isn't that neat? In this video, you
learned how to convert the standard APA output
to something more useful, a browsable API interface
with the help of the API view decorator
function in DRF. You'll also learn about other benefits of
using this decorator, like authenticated API
endpoints and read limiting.