By now, you should know how to create function-based views. Function-based views are
just the regular functions inside your views file. In this video, you will
learn how to create class-based views and leverage the benefits of
API views and DRF. Function-based and
class-based views each come with their
own advantages. Function-based views
are easy to implement, offer better readability, it's easier to use
decorators with them, and you can quickly write a once-off solution using
function-based views. With class-based views, you don't need to
write as much code. There's less code duplication, and you can extend the classes and add features at any time. Plus, you can write
specific methods for each type of HTTP request. Let's get started so you can observe class-based
views in action. Open the views.py file from the same booklist
project you worked on before. You will create your first
class-based view in this file. Class-based views help you to keep your code clean
and less cluttered, and you can avoid writing extra code by reusing the
common functionalities. To create a class-based
view in a DRF project, you must extend the
API view class. Let's import it first from
the rest framework module. You also need to import
the response class. Let's create a class called booklist that extends
the API view class. When adding methods
in a class name, you should name them the
same as the HTTP verbs. For example, get and post. Now, let's return a simple
message from this method. It's time to map this
class-based view in the booklist API
apps urls.py file. Open the booklist API
forward/url.py file, remove the old mapping
and add this line to the URL patterns array to map
the whole class as a view. You don't need to map each
class method separately. Now you can visit the endpoint
forward/API forward/books. This endpoint will not accept a HTTP post request
because there is no post method in this
booklist class. Let's add one. The post method also accepts three or four arguments
like the GET method. Remember, you are using
the browsable API view. This means you can test this post method right
from your browser. Visit the books endpoint and scroll to the
bottom where you can add request parameters
in the content text box. For now, just click on the post button and
test the output. Now come back to the GET method. What if the API client wants to list the books by
a specific author? How can you accept the
query string parameter from the following request, forward/API, forward/books, question mark, author
equals Hemingway? You can accept this
query string parameters using the request argument. The author parameter can be accessed using request.get.get, and then author inside quotation marks and a
set of parentheses. Let's change the GET method
to display the author's name. If the author is
passed to the URL, it shows only that
author's book. Otherwise, it will
show all books. Next, visit the URL forward/API forward/books
question mark author equals Hemingway and
check the result. You can accept JSON or form
URL encoded data elements in a post method using
request.data.get, open and closed brackets. Now visit the books
endpoint in the browser, scroll to the bottom, and
in the content text box, add this JSON data. This is called a payload. Payload is a common
term used for any JSON data or form URL encoded data that
you send to an API and modify the post method to return the title
from the payload. Click on the post button
and check the result. Now I will demonstrate
how to accept the primary key in the methods
of the class-based views. To do that, create a
new class called book. This class will manipulate
the single book item. This time, add a GET method
with an extra parameter, the primary key denoted as PK. Open the urls.py file and map this new book class to
the URL patterns array. Now visit the endpoint, forward/API forward/books
forward/one. Note the ID of the book
in the API result. The PUT method, however,
is a little different. You must add the extra
argument PK and you can access the request parameters
using request.data.get, open and closed parenthesis, just like the previously
created post method. Visit the following URL
and send a JSON payload. The URL is the local URL host and then API forward/books
forward/one. Click the Put button
and note the output. Like the API view decorator, you can use throttling and
authentication policies. You will learn about these
later in the course. In this video, you
learned how to create class-based views and use
them in your DRF projects. You also learned
how to deal with different HTTP methods in these class-based
views and how to accept the query
string parameters and primary keys or PK
inside the view methods.