You can save a lot of time using
smart debugging tools and utilities. And one such tool is the Django
debug toolbar which is necessary for every Django developers tool built. In this video, you'll learn how to integrate this
debug toolbar in your Django projects. You can install the Django debug
toolbar with pip or pipenv. Open the project directory
in a terminal window and activate the virtual
environment with pipenv shell. Now, install the Django debug toolbar
using pipenv install Django debug toolbar. The next step is to add the debug
toolbar in the installed apps section. Open the settings.py file and add debug
toolbar in the installed apps array. Now, you need to add a special URL pattern
to your project to map the debug toolbar. Next, include a middleware called debug
toolbar.middleware.DebugToolbarMiddleware in the middle or
section in the settings.py file. You can find this section just
below the installed apps section. Finally, include the local
host IP address which is 127.0.0.1 in a new
section called internal IP's. This section is not in
the settings.py file by default. So you must create it. Excellent. Now, you're done installing
the Django debug toolbar, let's visit any of the endpoints. For example, place four slash API for slash books at the end
of the localhost URL. Now, you should notice the debug toolbar
on the right side of the screen, it contains information about
your current project set up, the current requests and
the database queries. If the toolbar is open, you can hide it by clicking on the hide
link at the top of the debug toolbar. You can also enable and
disable any section of the debug toolbar using the checkboxes
beside each of them. The Django debug toolbar
has many sections. Let's explore some of the important ones. The settings section displays all the
settings you have in your settings.py file and other settings used throughout
the project and the installed apps. If you want to override a setting,
copy its name and value from here and then add it in the settings.py
file with the new value. Let's move on to the header section. This section includes all the header
information sent to this request and those generated in the response. The skills section is one of the most
useful sections in the Django debug toolbar. It shows the list of the SQL queries
executed for this end point. This is a place where you often check for
performance tuning and optimization. From here, you can easily detect if more
than required SQL queries are running and then take the necessary steps to fix them. The static file section displays
all the static files loaded for the current request and
those used by the installed apps. Developers usually do not serve
static files from API requests. Still, you should know about this. The Cache section displays
applications that use the Cache. By now, you should know that Cache
helps to reduce the several load for a great extent. You learn more about Cache
later in this course. The last section I want to
highlight is profiling. This is unchecked by default and you can
enable it using the checkbox next to it. The profiling section displays
the complete call stack. When you make a request, a file in
your project intercepts the call. Then it invokes another function, that function calls another one and
it goes on and on like this. It then comes to your function or
class based views and thereafter, jumps to another file to generate
the response and display it. So, the profiling section contains
this full code execution flow. Please note that the Django debug
toolbar will only be visible during development time when
you use the browser API. It will not show when you're making
the API call in the production view or when it returns data as the client
apps are consuming the APIs. In this video, you learn about
an important tool called Django debug toolbar which can help you to debug and
optimize your API project. You should now be able to
include it in your project and use some important
sections in the toolbar.