By now, you know that DRF is a great toolkit to help you
write APIs very quickly. In this video, you'll learn
how to install and configure the Django Rest Framework or DRF in a Django project
with minimal effort. Now the question is, are you
going to use pip or pipenv. If you're eating just pip, you'll need to manage
all those dependencies and keep track of
those packages. You will also need to set up
the virtual environment and configure it to
function correctly. However, is in pipenv, which works on top of pip, makes everything easier with a lot of work going
on behind the scenes. Creates and manages the
virtual environment. You don't have to manually configure so many
things to make it work. In this video, you'll set up a new Django project
using pipenv and then install DRF using both pip and pipenv and
configure it properly. Let's begin. Open the
terminal and go to your project directory and apply the command pipenv
install django. Now, apply the
command pipenv shell to activate the
virtual environment and it'll be ready to work. Let's create a
Django project and app using the following
commands in your terminal. Django-admin startproject
BookList. Now, python manage.py
startapp BookListAPI. Great. Now you can use pip or pipenv to install the DRF
using the following commands. Pip or pip3 install
djangorestframework, or pipenv install
djangorestframework. Now to configure the DRF, which is relatively
straightforward. Open the settings.py in your
project directory and find the installed apps section where all the installed
apps are listed. Now add rest_framework at the end of this list
and you're done. DRF is now configured
and ready to use. We also need to include the
BookListAPI app in this list. Now let's create
an API endpoint, for example, /books, which you can access
by making an HTTP get request to
http://127.0.0.1/books. Open the views.pyfile from your BookListAPI app and add
the following code in it. DRF comes with an
improved version of the default HD versus
class called response. In DRF, you will also need
to wrap the methods with the decorator
@api_view brackets. This is so you can use the
response class properly. This decorator will be
discussed later in this course. For now, let's just
keep it as it is. To map this method to an API endpoint create
a new file called urls.py inside your
BookList API directory and add the following
code in it. Finally, you need to
include the urls.py file in our project's
main urls.py file. Open the urls.py file in the booklets
directory and import the include function from
the same django.urls module. Let's link the newly
created books endpoint under the API for
our sketchbook. Add the following line to
the URL patterns section. Now run the web server using
Python manage.py run server. The books endpoint can be accessed as
http:127.0.0.1:8000/api/books. Now it's time to taste this
endpoint using insomnia. Open insomnia and create a new request which
the HTTP GET method. Write the following
URL in the URL field, http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/books. Now click the "Send button". You'll notice that
the texts list of the books returned
from the API. Nice. Let's make a post call
to this book's endpoint, open insomnia, and change
the method from GET to POST and click
the "Send button". Note that DRF is not accepting
an HTTP post call to this end point and
it's returning a message saying method
post not allowed. This is happening because
you did not instruct DRF to accept any other
HTTP methods than GET, which is the default one. If your API endpoints need to accept other HTTP
methods like POST, PUT, or DELETE you need to define them in the
API view decorator. Let's go back to our
view file and edit the API view decorator
function add square bracket, single quotation, POST
single quotation, close, square bracket, close inside the API view decorator
function and you are done. Now send the post request
again and check the output. DRF is now exiting HTTP post request to
this API endpoint. Similarly, you can add, PUT and DELETE if your API endpoint deals
with those HTTP methods. In this video, you'll
learn how to set up and configure the Django rest
framework in a Django project. You have also learned
how to accept different types of HTTP request to an API in DRF. Well done.