Hello and welcome to this course. Almost everyone has used a database and
more likely information about us is probably present in many
databases all over the world. But who understands what a database is and how important databases are to global
industry, government and organizations. A very straightforward description of
a database is that it is a form of electronic storage in which data is held. Of course. That explanation does not even come close
to explaining the impact of database technology to give an idea of
databases in a real world context, let's briefly describe
some typical use cases. For example your bank uses
a database to store data for customers, bank accounts and transactions, hospital stores, patient data staff data,
laboratory data and more. And an online store retains your
profile information along with your shopping history and
accounting transactions. Many of these services have access to
a diverse range of data they collect and store other items such as your location,
how long you spend on their platform and friends you connected with
alongside many more facts. Such online services and social media
platforms generate enormous amounts of data due to their large user base and
constant user activity and with the internet of things or IOT many extra
devices are now connected to the internet. These continual streams of data have led
to a revolution in database technology to accommodate the volume variety and complexity of what has
become known as big data. Whatever the source of the data a database
will typically carry out the following actions, all of which developers such
as yourself must be familiar with store the data form connections or relationships
between segmented areas of the data, filter the data to show relevant records,
search data to return matching records and have functions to lay the data to be
updated, changed and deleted as required. Don't worry if you don't fully
understand all these terms for now, you're just receiving a brief
introduction to databases and data. During the course you'll explore these
concepts in more detail alongside the many other tasks that form the duties
of a back end developer. You learn about the concepts of data and
databases, how data is related in the database and
different database structures and their uses, how to perform create,
read, update and delete operations,
how to use sequel operators to sort and filter data what database normalization
is and how to normalize a database. You'll also get to build a fully
operational database and you'll also install and
setup software called stamp on your computer to help progress your local and
remote database learning. There are many videos in your course
that will gradually guide you towards that goal. Watch, pause, rewind and rewatch
the videos until you're confident in your skills, then consolidate your knowledge
by consulting the course, readings and put your skills into practice During
the course exercises along the way you'll encounter several knowledge quizzes where
you can self check your progress and you're not alone in considering a career
as a back end developer which is why you'll also work with course discussion
prompts that enable you to connect with your classmates. It's a great way to share knowledge,
discuss difficulties and make new friends to be successful in
this course it is helpful to commit to a regular and
disciplined approach to learning. You need to be serious about your study
and, if possible, map out a study schedule with dates and times that you can
devote to attending the course. It's an online self paced course, but it
does help to think of your study in terms of regular attendance at
a learning institute. In summary, this course provides you with
a complete introduction to databases and as part of a program of courses
that lead you towards a career and back end development.