Congratulations on
making it this far. You've learned all the basics
of REST API development, the good, the bad, the do's and don'ts. Finally, you are here
to use that knowledge to build an API project for
the little lemon restaurant, this will be fun and a little challenging
at the same time. Let's dive into a demonstration of what you're going to do. In this project you will deal
with three types of users, managers, customers,
and the delivery crew. You can use the knowledge of user roles you learned
earlier in this course. You'll start with the
user registration and authentication process
that each user will use, then you will create API
endpoints that can be used to assign users to a group like manager or a
delivery person. This endpoint can be used to remove them from the groups too. You will need to
think carefully about what type of token is
required for this endpoint. Now, first is the manager role. Only managers can use some
API endpoints to add, edit, and remove menu items. Managers should also be able to update any user to
a delivery person. Next up is the customer rule, if a user doesn't belong to any specific group you should
consider them a customer. Customers should be able
to browse menu items, filter them by categories, and price ranges, and
search menu items. You need to create APIs that
will allow customers to add menu items to their
cart and place an order. But here's the catch, the cart must be emptied when the order is
successfully created. Does this sound a
little bit tricky? Don't worry you can do it. You can also add
an API endpoints to flush the cart at any point. One customer should only be able to have one cart at a time, and one cart should be able to contain multiple menu items. Last, there are APIs related
to the delivery process. First, you need
API endpoints for the managers to browse the orders and assign them
to a delivery person. Managers should also be able to filter orders by their status, like delivered and
not delivered. After successful authentication, delivery people
should be able to browse orders assigned to them by using your API endpoints
and mark them as delivered. Customers can always come to the orders endpoint
to see their orders, including the status of that
order and the total price. Finally, you will need to implement some throttling
for the APIs you built, limit it to five API
calls per minute. While working on this project, please ensure that
your API endpoints support only the
required HTTP methods, and always return the appropriate status
code with the response. Let's discuss the
tools you'll need. You should use VS Code
for writing the code, you will need to use Django with Django REST framework or DRF, and everything should work
in a virtual environment. For testing and debugging
you can use insomnia, use only the packages
and libraries you learned about
earlier in this course. Just one last thing, if you use a session
authentication class during the development, make sure to comment that
out before submission. The finished project should only support token-based
authentication. It's time to implement
the knowledge you gained in this video. Good luck.