Now that you know the scope of this
project and you have read about database schema, it's time to create the models for
this final project. Let's start, you need a few models to implement
all the features in your project. Django already comes with the user model. So you don't need to worry about that. Now, open the model start by file and
start with the category model. This model only recourse to field
a slug and the title for the slug. You'll use the slug field type. The title will be char filled
with a maximum length of 255. The client application will search against
this title field so you must index it. Next, a menu item Model is required. A menu item can have a title and
price which will be char field and decimal field respectively. It also needs a boolean field that
indicates if this menu item is set as featured. And finally a menu item will
always belong to a category. So you need a category
field as a foreign key. Now, let's start with a curved model
occurred Model is a temporary storage for users who can add menu items
before placing an order. Remember in the project scope it was
mentioned that a user can only have one card at a time. This model needs a user field which
will be a foreign key to the user model. You need to import this model from
the django dot contract dot dot dot models module. The card model also needs a menu
item field which will be a foreign key to the men White model. And finally you need a quantity field and
to price fields. For easier calculation. One is the unit price of the main item and the other is the price which multiplies
the quantity with the unit price and saves the result when someone places
the order, two things will happen. An order will be created that holds some
important information about this order. So where will the menu items related
to that order go from the curd. As soon as the order is placed,
all the items will move from the curd to an order item table and
link those main items with the ordinary. Let's create these two models. The order model needs a user field linking
to the user stable as a foreign key and the bullying field called status to mark. If the order is delivered or not, the default value of this
field will be set to zero. Then there is a total field continuing
the price of all the menu items in this order and a dead field to mark. When this order was placed in this model,
you need another field called a delivery crew which will
link to the user model in Django. You cannot create two foreign keys
referring to the same field in a foreign table. You must set a related name for it. So the related name of this field was
said to delivery underscore crew because both user and the delivery crew were
referring the user ID in the user table. And here comes the last model. The order item, all the items from
the curd will be moved here with a link to the newly created order ID. And then those card
items will be delighted. So after placing the order,
the curd will be empty and the user can start adding new items for
a new order you need a foreign key order referencing the order model in
this model then comes the menu item. Again, another foreign key for
the menu item model. You also need a quantity field because
someone can add multiple items for a menu item and just like the card model. This model also requires a unit price and
price field for easier calculation noted. The use of two meta classes in
the card and order item model for two unique indexes In the court model. This line means that there can be only
one menu item entry for a specific user. You can only change the quantity of
the menu item And in the order item model this unique index means that
one order can have only one entry for a specific menu item but the quantity can
vary now that you have your models ready. It's time to start writing code