You've made it to the end of the course. Why don't you take a moment
to congratulate yourself. After all, you've learned a lot
in this course, let's recap. In the very first week, you learned
how APIs are used in the real world. Next up was a quick refresher all
about http and https in which you covered http methods, requests,
responses and status codes. You also learned how to set
up visual studio code and how to use API clients like insomnia and
tools like pipenv. After that, you learned about
rest APIs best practices, key characteristics and benefits and
the API request lifecycle. You then learned about access control and
the difference between authentication and authorization. Authentication gives you access while
authorization allows you to perform certain actions. Following this you created your own
API and learned how to organize an API project by creating routes and
using correct naming conventions. And you learned how to debug python
scripts from VS code using the built in debugging tools as well as how to create
mock APIs to develop your applications. You then learned how to install and
set up Django REST Framework or DRF as well as how to create
a basic API using DRF. You discovered how DRF can retrieve
data from a database, process it and then present it as JSON, XML or
other formats to your clients. Now that was important. And you learned more about the API view
decorator and its benefits as well as how to use function and
class based views to create API endpoints. Next, you learned more about
the different types of serializers and how you can use them to convert and
validate your data. In this section of the course,
you also learned how to use the built in renderers in DRF to display API
output in different formats. And in the third week you learned about
access control and API maintenance as well as the concepts of filtering,
ordering, searching and paginated. You also covered how to cache an API
result in DRF as well as how to test and secure an API and DRF. Lastly, you learned more about
token-based authentication in DRF and how to create user roles
to ensure good security and how to use the Djoser library for
the registration and sign in process. Now you're ready to tackle
the graded assessment, The Little Lemon Restaurant API project. Good luck.