Congratulations on
reaching the end of this APIs course and the
back-end developer program. This course allows you to
delve deeper into the process and concepts behind APIs
and their infrastructure. You've worked hard to get here, learned a lot, and developed a lot of new skills
during the course. You were able to demonstrate
some of this learning and your practical API
development skill set by creating your own
book list API project, as well as a Little Lemon
restaurant API project. In addition to this, following your completion of this course, you should now be able to, understand RESTful
API development, use the Django REST framework to create APIs efficiently, serialize database models,
convert and validate data, implement search, ordering,
filtering and pagination, and control access
to your APIs and put systems in place to ensure
you maintain their health. What are the next steps? Well, this is the sixth course in the back-end
developer program, and you have gained a
valuable understanding of important concepts
and practical skills. You probably realize that there's still more
for you to learn. If you found this course helpful and wanted
to discover more, then why not register for the next course on
full-stack development. In this course, you will
practice bringing together multiple skills to build
a full-stack Django app. Throughout each of the
courses in the program, you'll continue to
expand your skill set, and in the final assessment, you will bring together
all the skills you've learned to manage
your own project. Once you've
successfully completed all the courses in this
back-end developer program, you'll receive a certificate. Certifications provide
globally recognized and industry endorsed evidence of
mastering technical skills. You've done a great job so far and you should be proud
of your progress. The experience you
gained so far will show potential employers
that you are motivated, capable, and not afraid
to learn new things. Again, congratulations
on finishing this course and good luck with the rest of your
educational journey.