Email is a common communication method that we all know about. But before it existed,
the alternative was to send mail to one another
through the postal system. There is a surprising parallel
between the postal system and how the computer sends and receives data across
the Internet every day. Let's compare how
they both work. Data sent across the Internet is quite an important part
of our everyday lives, and it wouldn't be
possible without Internet Protocol
addresses or IP addresses. A useful way to think of IP addresses is that
they function much like addresses in a postal
system that make it possible for packets of information to be
delivered to you. Like with the postal system,
things can go wrong. But let's first go
over how things work before we think about
how they can go wrong. In this video, you will
learn what IP addresses are and explore how computers send data
across the Internet. You previously learned how computers connect to
each other to form networks and how these networks connect to each other
to form the Internet. When you send data between
computers across the Internet, a common way of
understanding this is that the computers are
the destinations that request and
receive the data, and the networks are the routes that the data travels across. What makes that possible
is the Internet Protocol. Version 4 and version
6 are currently the two most widely used
standards of Internet Protocol. Think of the old fashioned
postal system again. When you send a
letter to a friend, you need their address. Otherwise, they won't
receive your letter. Computers work in a similar way. Every computer on a network
is assigned an IP address. In protocol version 4, an IP address contains four octets separated
by periods or dots. For example, 192.0.2.235. In protocol version 6, an IP address contains
eight groups of hexadecimal digits
separated by a colon. When you send data
across a network, you send the data as a series of messages called IP packets, also known as datagrams. At a high level, IP packets contain a header and a
payload, which is the data. Think of the old fashioned
postal system again. When you send a letter, you not only include the
recipient's address, but also your own address in case a return
location is needed. IP packets are the same. They include the destination IP address and source IP address. These addresses are in
the header along with some additional information
to help deliver the packet. The payload contains the data of the packet and some
of the other protocols, which we'll cover in a moment. Earlier, I mentioned that things can go wrong
with a postal system. When sending multiple
letters to a friend, it's possible they may
arrive out of order. It's possible that a
package will get damaged, or if you're really unlucky, a letter could get lost. These issues can happen
to IP packets, too. They can arrive out of order, become damaged or
corrupted during transit, or be dropped or
lost during transit. To solve these problems, the payload part of the packets contains other protocols, too. You can think of them
as another message inside the payload
of the IP packet. The two most common protocols are the Transmission
Control Protocol, referred to as TCP, and the User Datagram Protocol, also known as UDP. TCP can solve all three of the previously
mentioned issues, but at the cost of a small
delay when sending the data. This protocol is
used for sending the data that must arrive
correctly and in order, such as a text or image files. UDP solves the
corrupt packet issue, but packets can still arrive out of order or
not arrive at all. This protocol is
used for sending data that can tolerate
some data loss, such as voice calls or
live video streaming. Both of these protocols
contain payloads that contain further protocols inside of
them. There you have it. The Internet uses
Internet protocols, much like an old-fashioned
postal system. These protocols can
help to make sure that data arrives in order, does not become corrupted or lost or dropped during transit. Now, you're able to explain how IP addresses work and how computers send data
across the Internet.