Having a knowledge of data structures
is useful for any coding interview may encounter, from basic data structures
like strings, Booleans or arrays to more advanced data structures
like collections, graphs, and heaps. Understanding the data
you're working with, and the most appropriate structure
to use can be very beneficial. In this video, you will be
introduced to data structures and the two main types, mutable and immutable. You will also learn what to look for when considering a given data
structure in your own applications. A data structure models an object so
that it can be stored and organized easily in computer memory. It can be a simple immutable structure
that does not change after creation, or it can be immutable structure
that facilitates operations to be performed on the contents. Operations might include updates and queries to be performed on
the contents of the structure. On the surface, it may seem that immutable
structure should always be used. However, mutable structures require
time and effort to model, and some objects are very complex and
not easily modeled. Other concerns,
such as space may be a factor. Understanding the underlying mechanics
of data structures can be a great advantage because decisions to use
a particular data structure can have far reaching implications
on a project's progress. While the implementation and capabilities of a data structure can range
between various programming languages, the overarching architecture
generally follows similar patterns. Here is a universal classification
of data structures that categorizes the different types of structure into
two main branches, linear and nonlinear. This relates to how the elements
are stored within the data structure. A linear structure relates to
how the information is stored. The elements of the structure are arranged
one after another, or sequentially, reflecting the order
that they were inputted. Examples of linear structures are arrays,
queues, stacks and lists, and it infers that each element is attached
to the element that precedes it. Some languages will demand that only
similar types of data are stored on the same structure. Therefore, you will have integer lists,
or string arrays. Other languages will allow for
mixed arrays. This would mean that
storing an integer and string in the same array
is not prohibited. This easy approach can come at the cost
of error handling down the line. For example, imagine you have created
an array and want to find the sum of your values only to discover that the
total is three pineapples and one apple. Once a simple structure has been created,
such as a list or array, it will contain an index. An index is a way of accessing
elements that may not necessarily be the first or
last instances. Generally use of an index is done
through a appending square brackets and the location of the item as an integer. So array 4 would indicate that
the required element is the fourth item of the array. However, programming languages
are predominantly zero based, which means that the count
will start at 0. Therefore, array 4 would actually
be the fifth item in the array. Accessing an array through the use of
an index can throw an error if index location 8 is requested, but there
are only seven elements in the array. A common feature of these structures
is that most languages have a built in length method that will inform
as to how big an array is. An example of this would be
calling array.length in java or placing it inside a len
function in python. While the mechanism of how to
retrieve the length varies, it is possible in most
programming languages. Arrays and
lists are typically first class objects. This means that all functionality that is
available to other variables is available to them. This definition generally indicates
that a data structure can be passed as a parameter to a function returned
as a result or assigned to a variable. When passing a list or array to
a function, care should be taken that the structure is actually passed and
not just a reference to the structure. This can be a memory saving device used
to prevent copying the information. However, such instances can cause
an error if a change in the structure inadvertently affects the array
in the calling environment. In this example, a string has been
added to a list of integers, and because the new list points to the initial
list, the initial list is also changed. Therefore, it is better to
make a copy of the array and pass the copy to the function. Another memory related issue to
be mindful of is a memory leak. Memory as previously mentioned
can be arbitrarily allocated. If this memory is not used, then it is good practice to de
allocate the memory location. As a result of careless programming or
other issues, it is possible that a program makes repeated calls that result
in excessive memory being allocated and not then deallocated. Over a prolonged
time or through repeated calls this can cause the application
to run out of memory and crash. Most compilers have sophisticated
algorithms for detecting and deallocating memory to avoid this issue. In contrast to linear structures, there are nonlinear instances
such as trees or graphs. These structures do not allow you to
traverse the data in one smooth motion. Instead, you can
investigate certain paths. The makeup of these structures means
that they can include natural sorting, which makes querying for
specific data very quick. You will learn about different types
of sorting later in the course. In this video, you had a general
overview of data structures, including their two main types,
linear and nonlinear. You have also learned about some of
the considerations that should be made when deciding the type of
data structure you should use. As you progress through this module, you
will explore these structures further, and learn about some of the individual
strengths and weaknesses