You might recall that scope relates to code accessibility. It determines which
part of the code are accessible by different
parts of the program. In this video you will explore
scoping in more detail, and learn about two more
scope types and how they work with the keywords
var, let, and const. You may recall that all
the code outside of functions is referred
to as global scope, and all the code inside of a function is known
as local scope. Local scope states that
a variable is only accessible in the function
where it is declared. In the ES5 version
of JavaScript, only functions can
build local scope. The ES6 version of
JavaScript introduced a new variety of scope
known as the block scope. Block scope states that a
variable declared in a block of code is only accessible
inside that block. All the other code outside of the code block cannot access it. Block scope is built
when you declare variables using let or const. In other words when you build variables with let or const, they become
immediately scoped to the code block they
were created in. The scope of these variables is contained within
curly braces. For example, you can declare two separate variables
with the same name. If one is declared inside curly braces and
the other is not, you can then only access these variables
inside their scope. Before ES6, the
only way to declare a variable in JavaScript
was to use the var keyword. The var keyword is very lenient. Let's outline some
characteristics of variables that are
declared with var. First, you can use it in your code even before
it is declared. Also, you can redeclare the same variable
when you use VAR. The variables are scoped
to a function R if they are declared outside the function their
scope is global. With ES6, the suggested
way to declare variables is to use the
let or const keywords. Its syntax is very similar
to the var syntax. Only the keyword is replaced. For example, let's say
you want to declare a variable named user and assign it to a string set to
the value of Miranda. In ES5, you use the keyword var, the variable user,
the equal operator, and then the string value
Miranda inside double quotes. In ES6 with let and const, you use the same syntax, only changing the var keyword
to either let or const. Notice that the syntax
is very similar. You might be wondering what's
the difference between var, let, and const. The simplest explanation is that the behavior of let and
const is more strict. With a let or a const variable, you cannot use it in your
code before you declare it. You can redeclare it using the variable keyword
like you can with var. Finally, it's scoped
to the block, even within if
statements and loops, like the far or while loops. If you are new to JavaScript, it may be confusing as to
when to use either var, let, or const. A pro tip is to remember
it's like this. Use let if the value might
change in the future, and use const if the
value will never change. In this video, you learned
how the scope of variables changes when you use the
keyword var in ES5 JavaScript, and when you use the
keywords let and const in ES6 JavaScript. Great job.