Well done. You've reached the end of this
module about front-end technologies. You will certainly use this knowledge
in your full-stack development career. Let's take a few moments to
review what you've learned. You started by learning how HTML and
CSS are used in the real world. HTML is a markup language used to create
web pages whereas CSS is a style sheet language that is used to describe the look
and layout of a document written in HTML. In essence, the combination of HTML and
CSS allows websites to adapt their design and layout based on
the devices on which they're viewed. You also learned about semantic tags and how important it is to follow a structured
approach to create a well-formed web page like the basic structure of an HTML
page which includes the head and body. For a typical HTML page, the structure
can be semantically described using the header, main, and
footer semantic HTML tags. After semantic tags, you moved on to form
submissions, and how to use the get and post methods with specific action
attributes to submit a form. You learned that form validation is a
process that ensures that the data entered by users in a form is valid and conforms
to the rules defined by the developer. And you now know that most
websites use both client-side and server-side validation to provide
immediate feedback to users, but also to protect against malicious data
submissions and to ensure data integrity. You also learned about the different
input types that are validated by the web browser on the client side and how to
decide what type best suits your use case. After learning about HTML,
you took a deep dive into CSS layouts, grids, and flexboxes in the next lesson. You started by learning about CSS
web layout and units of measurement. Layouts are fundamental to designing
a good web page because they divide a page into different sections, thereby
making the view port more presentable. You explored how to set up a basic
flexbox and grid layout, and applied what you learned by creating a custom
layout using grids in an ungraded lab. Well done, remember there is no strict
rule on choosing which layout to use. But in general, flexboxes are more
suitable when you want to create flexible elements in smaller spaces while grids
are more suitable to large-scale layouts. The lesson also covered how to work
with CSS selectors, pseudo-classes, and pseudo-elements. Ultimately, you should now know how to use
CSS selectors like attribute selectors to apply rules to different HTML elements
with varying degrees of specificity. Remember, pseudo-classes, are state-based
selectors which means that they allow you to select elements based on their
state for example, the hover state whereas pseudo-elements help you
style a specific part of an element. For example, you can apply styling to only
the first word or line in a given element. You also learn that you can
combine more than one selector, so you can apply rules to elements based
on their relationship with one another. And with pseudo-class selectors, you can
improve the interactivity of your web pages without having to add
overly advanced styling. You also now know that pseudo-elements
help you style a specific part of an element, but keep in mind that the lesson on CSS
covered the fundamental selectors. But there are many other selectors
that are worth exploring. Next, you learned about JavaScript, the language that builds
interactivity into web pages. Almost every website runs
JavaScript in some form or another. Using JavaScript updates are displayed
in real-time on user's devices. Examples include interactive maps or adding an item to a shopping
cart when you click a button. You learned why developers use
variables and how to declare them. Remember, variables allow you to make
the exact same code produce different results making your programs versatile. Next, you learned about the different
data types and their specifics, and that it's important to choose
the appropriate type for every use case. Like the number data type which has
a very wide range in JavaScript and is usually enough for most common use
cases, and the string data type that practically has an unlimited number
of combinations of characters. But to use variables you need operators. You learn that operators perform
operations on variables and values to manipulate individual
data items in return or result. You then moved on to JavaScript
interactivity, selectors, and event handling. And this is all part of one of
the most powerful JavaScript features, DOM manipulation. You now know how to interact with
the document object model or dom of a web page to make changes to it. For instance, by using the elements tab inside the
browser dev tools you can interact with the dom of the currently active web page
using a graphical user interface or GUI. And you learn that event handling is
the function in JavaScript that listens to events such as a user
clicking on the cart button. You should now be able to
capture user input and process it to manipulate what
is displayed to the user. To do this,
you learned how to locate the objects in your HTML document using
JavaScript selectors. After completing the lesson
about JavaScript interactivity, you should be able to identify
the JavaScript selectors, event handling, API call, and
dom manipulation in this code snippet. Lastly, you learned about the front-end
libraries and frameworks that you can use in your developer career
to streamline your coding. Congratulations. You now completed the front-end
component of full-stack development. You are now ready to
take on the module quiz. Remember that this module was just
an introduction to front-end development. There is a lot more that you can learn
a bout HTML CSS, and JavaScript. Check out the front-end
developer program from meta for courses that cover these
languages in more depth