It takes approximately 39 months
to find software engineers and developers in tech hub cities in the US. The interviews that you will go through
sometimes have skills that you don't normally use in your day to day job. It's not just about how well you can
program, it's also about how well you're displaying a lot of interpersonal skills,
how well you're able to drive projects, how well you're able to
collaborate with others. You don't need to worry
about showing up in a suit. You really can just kind of
wear whatever be yourself, and focus on the technical
aspects of the interview. [MUSIC] Hi, my name is Julie, and I am a software engineer on the IG
shopping team at Meta New York. Hi my name is Moxxy Herrera. I use they/them pronouns, I'm a software
engineer in the social impact award and Meta, and I work at the Menlo Park office. My name is Chanel Johnson. I work remotely in Maryland for
Meta, and I'm a software engineer for the Facebook app core architecture team,
where we work on infrastructure for the Facebook mobile app. My name is Mari Butilando,
I am a software engineer for the Web3 Monetization team within Meta,
and I work on different ways creators and influencers can make a living off
of the Facebook platform using Web3 technologies like NFTs and
Cryptocurrency. I think it can be broken
up into three general areas. One is the application process,
one is actual interviewing, and one is the calibration process when they
discuss your packet and give you an offer. In terms of the actual interview process, it's broken up into technical
architecture, and behavioral. For the application phase, its recruiters kind of screening
your resume, your work experience. The recruiter then will meet
with you and talk with you, or to get a better idea about your skills,
your experiences, what you're looking for to make sure that you're a good fit for
the role. Phase two is
the technical aspect of it. There can be a range of 1 to 4 or
5 or even more interviews there. So this could be things like a coder
pad interview where you're on the phone or over a voice chat with a recruiter or a engineer to kind of go through
some technical challenges. You'll have some behavioral interviews,
where people are just going to engaging with what it's like to work with you,
how do you solve problems. And then oftentimes their architecture
interviews as well, where you build kind of an end to end products,
discuss the full architecture for that. Phase three, the final phase is when
everyone involved in the process kind of gets together and discusses how
you did throughout the phases, and if they should extend an offer to you. If you decide to take on the offer,
you go through what is called boot camp process, where you get to learn
the ropes of how it is working at Meta. And also sit with the teams that you're
interested in, so that you know what choice you end up making, and you get to
choose ultimately what team you go in. If you are interviewing for a specific
pipeline like IOS, android, or ML, or AI, you should expect some questions
that deal with that specific domain. So, for example, in my case,
I was interviewing for the IOS pipeline. So in addition to those algorithms and data structure questions that I got asked,
I also got asked some IOS questions, or some questions that I deal with in my
day to day work as an IOS engineer. So you can imagine similar things as
if you were a an android engineer or if you're an AI or ML engineer. I think in the application phase is
when a lot of candidates get screened out, what can really help there is crafting
your resume and focusing on real experience, that will really help when
it comes to software engineering roles. So, if you don't have job experience,
totally fine, work on side projects and that will show both concrete experience
and a drive that you're actually interested in working on the role
that you're applying for. I will see the coding interview portion
is where a lot of people get disqualified. There's going to be many reasons for
it, but the biggest reason I see is that sometimes
when you're writing out your code, the person being interviewed is not
explaining their thought process, what's going on,
they're not asking clarifying questions. Sometimes the interviewer gives
them a hint they're not listening. So, communication skills is where
I also see a lot of people getting disqualified in the coding
interview portion. Some candidates I see do not
have a structured process for answering problems they may
not have heard or seen before. And they kind of just go cowboy coding and just start coding without even knowing
what they're supposed to solve. So I think having a robust problem solving
process for questions you may or may not have seen before, is very important
doing well in in these coding interviews. One common problem is people
get stuck and they get so wrapped up in it, that they're
unable to kind of take feedback. What interviewers are looking for,
isour holistic approach to the problem. So it's not just about solving the
problem, it's about how you go about it, it's about collaboration
with the interviewer. So that's a really important
piece to remember. >> The biggest thing that I've
learned is to really be myself. I found it much more successful and way less stressful to just be
who I am unapologetically. But it also means whenever I
come forward as a candidate, like I am presenting myself as I am and
not trying to hide anything given that this is who I want to be at work,
this is who I want to be in my life. And I think having that mentality
has made it so much easier, regardless of the outcome of the process. Think really hard about what you want,
and choose companies that
resonate with what you value. There are other things other than
compensation and just the prestige of a company that matters, and
how happy you are with the company. So make sure you make a list of those, and consider that whenever
you're choosing companies. My biggest piece of advice is just
going through as much practice as possible. So, two main ways to do that, I think
is one while you go through lead code problems or mock interviewing,
doing the whole thing and to end. Even if you're unable to solve
the problem, you get stuck, you don't know what to do, finishing
it out as if it's a real interview. It'll give you really good practice for
when you actually get to the interview. And then the second thing is apply
to as many places as possible. It gives you the best chance
of getting interviews, and then once you're in a real
life interview situation, it's a lot easier if you've already
had experience doing that before. It really helps calm the nerves, and
it it helps you get more practice in. There's not all just only like one
particular person we're looking for when it comes to tech. We want different backgrounds and
different perspectives and experiences, because that's the only way we're
going to make our products better. We need that, it's such a rewarding
process to make an impact and actually for the better, and
just meet with people and keep learning. You will never get bored at this job,
never. >> As you start to interview,
you will face many ups and downs, and these are all experiences
you can learn from. If you keep pushing, keep learning,
you will eventually get to a role where you can start an amazing
career in technology. The amount of preparation
you're going to do, is going to lead you to having a really
big impact in the world because software is just everywhere and it's used by
millions and billions of people. So, I think it's well worth
the preparation, the amount of effort it takes to land a job at a very
influential and impactful tech company.