You've reached the end of
this capstone project course. You've worked hard to
get here and have made incredible progress in your
back-end developer journey. This course and all you have achieved is really a culmination of all the previous
courses you've completed in this
back-end program. Specifically,
introduction to web development,
programming in Python, version control,
introduction to databases, the Django web framework, APIs, and full-stack developer. With this course, you are able to reinforce and demonstrate the learning and practical
development skill set gained throughout
this program. In particular, this
was achieved through hands-on guided practice in building a relatively
complex app, mimicking some use cases and requirements of a
real-world project. Ultimately, you demonstrated
multiple skills from the program by composing a modern
back-end application for the Little Lemon Restaurant. Now that you've completed
the Web API project, it's a great time to
pause and reflect. You can reflect on
the completed course from several vantage points. For example, you could consider the previously completed
courses and how they tie into what you've
done in this course. Besides thinking
about the knowledge needed to complete the course, you might also reflect
on the process of completing this
particular project. You could ask yourself
questions such as, what were the hardest
parts of the project? What were the easiest
parts of the project? What experience did I gain
from building the project? Would I benefit from
going through parts of some previous courses or even taking them for
the second time. You might even
determine that most of the exercises and
tasks you needed to complete in this project
were easy and that you are ready to take on
even bigger challenges. This positions use nicely for the next course in
this program entitled, Coding interview
prep, to prepare you for entering the
development world as a working professional. Indeed, you have developed
a wide skill set during each of the back end development courses and now that you've had the opportunity to apply everything you've learned and built your own fully
functional website using Django, you're ready for the next
step in your journey. Why not register for
the next course? Once you've completed
all the courses, you'll receive a certificate
in back-end development. These certificates provide globally recognized and
industry-endorsed evidence of your technical skills Depending on your goals, you may choose to go deep with advanced role-based
certifications or take other fundamental courses. Once again, congratulations on completing this capstone
project course. Keep in mind that the
project completed it in this course proves
your knowledge of the value and capabilities of back-end development
and you now have a fully operational
website built using Django that you can reference
within your portfolio. This not only serves to demonstrate your
skills and knowledge, but it also speaks
volumes about you as a self-driven and
innovative individual. Thank you. It's
been a pleasure to embark on this journey
of discovery with you. Best of luck in the future.