Like the built-in
token system in DRF, you can also use JSON
Web Token or JWT. A popular token system
for API authentication. In this video, you'll
learn how to implement JWT in your DRF API project. To implement JWT
based authentication for your API endpoints, you need the
djangorestframework-simplejwt package. Activate the virtual
environment of your project using pipnv shell. Now run the command
pipnv install djangorestframework-simplejwt
tilde equals 5.2.1. Go to your settings.py
file and add rest_framework_simplejwt in
the installed apps section. Next, go to the default
authentication clusters in the rest framework
session in your settings.py file and add the JWT authentication
classes to this list. Then input some
essential classes from the rest framework, simple JWT views module. The simple JWT package needs some API
endpoints so that it can exit the username and password and generate
the JWT token. To enable those endpoints, open the main URLs.py file and add these two lines in
the URL patterns, array. Essentially token obtained pair view, generous the token. That's it. Your project is now ready for JWT
authentication. It's time to move over to
insomnia to create a JWT token. You do this by sending the
username and password in an HTTP post call to the
endpoint API4/token. Two tokens are returned
as a response. Keep a note of these two tokens so you can use them
later in this process. There are two essential
tokens involved in JWT. One is an access token which the client will use to
authenticate to the API calls. This access token expires
after five minutes in simple JWT and the
other is refresh token, to regenerate the access token. Refresh tokens will be discussed a bit
later in this video. You can specify the
period after which the access token expires
in the settings.py file. But it's always a good idea to keep this expiry video short. When this access token expires, the API calls can no longer authenticate
with the access token, but that doesn't mean that the client needs to login again. They can use the
refresh token from the previous call to regenerate
an access token again. Then you can use these regenerated
access token to authenticate an API call again. This is a security measure
involved with JWT. It's important
because you cannot manually let an
access token expire. If you need to prevent someone from regenerating
the access token, you can blacklist the
refresh token so that it cannot be used anymore.
But more on this later. Let's copy this access
token in insomnia, create a new HTTP request to the endpoint API4/secret and is authenticated class already
protects this endpoint. Next, click on the "ALT" tab in insomnia and select "Bearer", paste this access token in the token field and
send the request. Now, the secret message displays JWT authentication is
working perfectly. Wait for five minutes and just hit the "Send"
button again. DRF is telling you
that this access token is expired and is
no longer valid. Let's regenerate the access token using the refresh token. Create another HTTP
post call in insomnia. This time, the endpoint should
be API4/token4/refresh. Click on the "Body"
tab and select "Form URL Encoded" type refresh as the key and paste the previously saved
refresh token as value. Hit the "Send" button. A new access token
has been generated. The client can now
use this access token to make authenticated
API calls again. Finally, let's explore
how to blacklist a token. Remember, you cannot manually let a JWT access token expire. If you need to
block a client from generating JWT access token, you can do this using a utility blacklisting app provided by the
simple JWT package. This app will be used to
blacklist the refresh token so that it cannot generate
an access token anymore. First, add this line of code in the installed apps section in the settings.py file restframework_symbolJWT.token_blacklist. To use this token blacklist app, you need to run some migrations. Stop the web server and run
this command in the terminal. Python manage.py, migrate. After the migration is done, rerun that web server again. Now go to the main
URLs.py file and import token black list view class from the
rest framework, simplejwt.views module, and add some code to the URL
patterns path to enable this token
blacklist API endpoint. Now create a new
HTTP post request to the endpoint
API4/token4/blacklist. Then click on the body
tab and add refresh as the key and the previous
refresh token as value. Hit the send button. DRF will return an empty
response, but that's okay. Now this refresh token
has been blacklisted. Next, try to
regenerate this access token with this blacklisted
refresh token. What happens? DRF now tells you
that you cannot use this refresh token because
it is blacklisted. That's everything you
need to know about using JWT token for API authentication
in your DRF projects. You'll learn about JSON
Web Token or JWT in this video and how to use JWT tokens to
authenticate API calls. You also learn how to
regenerate access tokens using a refresh
token and blacklist or refresh token if needed. With this knowledge,
you are one step closer to creating secure
APIs. Well done.