Previously you learned that APIs are the gateway
to your back-end data. By using APIs, third
parties can access your data which poses the risk of data breaches, or corruption. Some APIs are meant to
be used by anyone and some APIs especially
those that modify data, are meant to be accessed only
by authenticated clients. In this video, you will learn how to implement
authentication and DRF and then protect your API endpoints
from public access. Previously, you learned that in password based
authentication the client, or the API user
sends their username and password with
every API call, then you can verify these credentials and deliver
the appropriate response. However, sending a username and password every time
is frustrating, and it is also not secure, that's why Token-based
authentication is the most popular method when it comes to API authentication. In this approach, users send their usernames and
passwords once. If the credentials are okayed, the server generates a
unique piece of string. This token is long, hard to read and contains alphanumerical
characters and symbols. The server can decide
for how long a token will be valid and
when it expires. The client sends
new API requests and includes this
token in the header. Server-side scripts then
check if the token is valid, or if it has expired, then it finds which user
this token belongs to. This token is validated
with the help of token authentication class in the auth token app
provided by DRF. If everything is okay, the API will run on
behalf of that user. The authentication process
is now done using the token, and you avoid sending the username and
password every time. Let's explore a practical
example of how to implement a token-based
authentication in DRF. Open settings.py and add rest_framework.authtoken in
your installed app section. Now open your terminal and
go to the project directory. Make sure you have the
virtual environment act of using pipenv shell. Run the necessary migrations
from the auth token app. Now let's create
an admin user to access the Django
admin panel using the command python
manage.py createsuperuser, and then supply the
username and password. Access the admin panel from the local host url/admin
and login as the admin, or super user you just created. All previously created tokens for all users are
displayed here. You can also create tokens
for new users here. Click on the "Plus", or "Add" button and create the token. You can come back to
the token section and check these tokens anytime. But now it's time to create
a protected API endpoint. Opened the views.py file
and add the following code, @api_view, def secret request. For the return at the
response message, some secret message, and map it to the /api/secret endpoint. Now, any client can
access this endpoint. Not secret and not
secure at all. Let's protect it so that only token verified users
can access it. Import the isauthenticated
class from permissions, and the permission
underscore classes decorator from the decorators
module in DRF. Now it's time to add some
magic to our secret method. Add the permission
classes decorator. This code snippet will return a secret message for the
authenticated users only. Next, let's visit the API secret endpoint and insomnia to test how it works. Great. Currently you
are not authenticated, so DRF doesn't
allow you to pass. It shows authentication
credentials were not provided, so the API endpoint
is now secure. You need to tell DRF to use the token-based
authentication. Simply set token
authentication as the default authentication class in the settings.py file, and these lines in the
rest framework section. Now go back to the Django
admin and copy the token. Come back to insomnia and
click on the "Auth" tab next to body and
select bearer token. Paste the token
you just copied in the token field and right
token and the prefix field. Authentication
tokens are sent as authorization colon token, the actual token in the header and this is what
you just did using Insomnia. Send the request and that's it. The secret message is there, token authentication now works. You can create another user from the Django admin panel and
use that user's token. But how can you generate these tokens from
an API endpoint? Don't worry, DRF has
everything ready for you. Open the LittleLemon app, url.py file and import the obtain_auth_tokenclass from the rest_framework.token.views
module, and add this URL pattern
for token generation. This endpoint only
accept HTTP post calls. Send a post call to this end
point /api/api-token-auth. DRF tells you that you need to supply the username
and password. Add the username and password of a user
that you created from Django admin and insomnia
as form URL encoded data, and send the post request again. If they're credentials
are valid, DRF sends the user
token in a response. If you create a new user from the Django admin
panel, or via code, you can always use the endpoint /api/api-token-auth
to authenticate them and generate a token. Then use this token to make HTTP calls to the
protected URLs. In this video, you learned about password and token-based
authentication and DRF. You should now know
how to protect an API endpoint by using
the built-in decorators and classes and you also
learned how to generate user tokens to
authenticate API calls. Back-end developers
should always try to optimize the security
of their systems. This knowledge will
serve you well in your future API projects.