Throttling is a very
efficient technique to prevent API abuse. Computing power and bandwidth are involved with every request. If you don't monitor it, your API infrastructure
will be at risk. With throttling, you
can control how often API can be accessed in a
certain amount of time. In this video, you'll
learn how to do that. Throttling clusters
are built into DRF. There are two major
type of throttling. One is for anonymous or
unauthenticated users, and the second one is
for authenticated users. An anonymous throttling
rate will be used when there is no token in the API header and user throttling will be used when
there are valid tokens. In addition to this, you can also create a custom throttling rules, for example, instead of limiting all
anonymous API calls to five calls per minute, you can allow 50 calls per
minute for some endpoints. Let's create a new
function in the views.py file called
throttle_check. When someone acts
as this endpoint, it will simply display a
message saying successful, and met this function
so that it can be accessed as forward slash API, forward slash throttle check. Now, you will limit
this endpoint for anonymous users to
two calls per minute. Import AnonRateThrottle
class from the rest framework
throttling module. Also import the throttle_classes
decorator function from the rest framework
decorators module. Then in the views.py
file add a throttle plus decorator and pass the
AnonRateThrottle to it. After the API view decorator for the throttle check
function throttle_clusters ([AnonRateThrottle]). This line instructs DRF to use the anonymous throttling
policy for this function. Open the settings.py file
and add a new section called Default_Authentication_Throttle rates in the rest
framework section, then type anon:2/minute. Instead of using minute, you can also use
second, hour or day. Now, visit the endpoint
API/throttle-check and you can see the message. Then refresh the end
point two more times. Notice that this time
DRF blocks the call and displays a message saying
detail request was throttled, expected available
in 59 seconds. After 59 seconds, you can make two calls
to the endpoint again, and you can do
this every minute. That was straightforward. What do you will the throttling
setting be if you want to throttle and endpoint for an anonymous users
to 20 calls per day? Yes, it'll be anon 20/day. How can you throttle
some endpoints for the authenticated users
to 10 calls per minute? Input the UserRateThrottle class from the rest framework
throttling module. Then create a new function only for the
authenticated users. This time, use UserRateThrottle as the throttling class
and map this function so that it can be accessed
as API/throttle_check_outh. Finally, add this line
in the settings.py file just after that anonthrottle
setting, user:5/minute. Now, using Insomnia, send an HTTP get call with a valid user token
to this endpoint. After five successful calls, DRF will display the
same message to you that you've seen earlier when a throttle limit was reached. Excellent. Everything
is working just fine but let's explore
one more example. With the current setting, when you use throttling classes, all API endpoints will be limited to two calls
per minute for the anonymous users and five calls per minute for
the authenticated users. But say you want another policy for some
API endpoints so that authenticated users
can call them 10 times per minute.
Let's do that. Create a new file called throttles.py in
your app directory and add the following code. Close 10 calls per minute, UserRateThrottle, and
then scope equals 10. This code creates a
new throttle policy with unnamed scope. This is scope will be used
in the settings.py file to establish the throttling
or 10 calls per minute. Now open the settings.py file and add this line of code after the user setting in the Default_Throttle_Rate
Section, ten:10/minute. Now import this 10 calls per minute class in our
views.py file like this and use this class as a throttle class for any
authenticated function calls. That's it. Now, authenticated users can
access this endpoint 10 times per minute and DRF will
block any extra goals. Let's test this in Insomnia. Here, I'm making 10 calls to this endpoint
api/throttle-check auth, but it blocks me
on my 11th call. In this video, you'll
learn how to prevent abuse of your API
endpoints by implementing, rate-limiting or throttling
using DRFs clusters. You also learn how to change the settings for anonymous
and authenticated users and allow them APIs to be called by accustomed rate using
throttling scopes.