You have already learnt how to protect
api endpoints by using token based authentication and
permission classes in D R F. But even after proper authentication,
there could be some issues. What if an authenticated user makes a http
delete call to one of the menu items? Or what if an authenticated customer
submits a http patch request to an order item and changes the data? Relying only on the authentication check, will not be sufficient to protect your
data, you must also check privileges, like if the authenticated user has
authorization to perform this action. This video will demonstrate how to take
advantage of django's built in user group system, and create a solid
authorization layer for your APIs. Open the django admin panel
from the local host URL, forward slash admin, forward slash and
log in as the super user. Let's create some groups. Click on the add button beside groups,
it will take you to a new screen, type the name manager, and
click on the save button, no need to select the permissions for
this role. Now create two users from the user
section, one is John Doe who will be our manager, and the other user
Jimmy Doe who will be the customer. Go back to the user section, you'll note
these two users, click on John Doe and add his first name, last name and
an email address you can create for him, scroll down until you see
the groups section, click on manager and then click on the right arrow
button next to this box. After you click, the manager group will
go to the right box, it means that the manager group has been assigned to
the user, John Doe, save it, excellent. You have created the foundation
of your authorization layer. Let's go back to the coding
to make this work, open the views dot pi file and
create a new method called manager view, just like the secret method you
created earlier, add the API view and permission classes decorator, and
map this method in the URL S dot pi file. Let's log in as John Doe and
create a token. Like you learned earlier,
send a http post call to the api token off end point with
John Doe's user name and password. You will get the token in return,
save it somewhere for now. Similarly, get the token for
Jimmy Doe and save it for later use. Now, send a get request to the manager
view endpoint with John Doe's token, nice. It displays the message only,
Manager should see this, but what if you send another request to
this endpoint with Jimmy Doe's token? DRF still shows the message that only
managers are supposed to see it, let's fix it. Go back to the views dot pi file, to
the manager view method, you need to check if the currently authenticated user
belongs to the manager group, if yes, then display the message, otherwise
send an error with a 403 status code. Rewrite the method manager view to
check if the currently authenticated user belongs to some group,
using this line, the A P I developer can check which groups
the current authenticated user belongs to, and then check if the manager
group exists in that list. If exists returns true, it means that the
current user belongs to the manager group. Now send the http, get request to the Manager view
endpoint with John Doe's token. What message comes up? D R F displays this message because
John Doe is in the manager group, send another call with jimmy Does token,
this time you see the error. Nice, your authorization
layer is working perfectly. In this way, you can protect any api endpoint
from unauthorized access in D R F. In this video,
you learned a very important lesson, how to protect your api endpoints
from unauthorized access, by implementing an authorization
layer using django's user groups. You also learned how to create users,
groups, and assign these groups to a user