So far you've learned about built-in token-based
authentication in DRF, Djoser, JWT, and many more. In this video, you'll learn how to register new users using this API endpoints
and you'll also create a new API for
super admin only, which will be used to assign users to group or
to remove them. You will not be using
JWT in this video, so it's best to clean up
JWT specific settings and URL patterns from
settings.py and urls.py. Let's start with the user
registration system. This can be a little complex
with the plane tariff. But wait, you have included Djoser and the library will
make things easier for you. Djoser has introduced
a few URLs, but you are only interested
in odd users endpoint. If you login as a super user in the Django admin and then
browse this endpoint, all the users will
be visible to you, but other people cannot browse this endpoint without
a valid token. If they make an HTTP GET call to this endpoint with a token, only their username and email
will be visible to them. But with the super admin token, they're all available to you. This endpoint can accept public HTTP post
calls with email, username, and password
without any token. The user will be created if
the username is not taken. Open insomnia, and create a HTTP post request to
this old users endpoint. Click on the body tab, select form URL encoded, and add three post fields named username, email, and password. Hit the ''Send'' button and URL sends a 200 Okay response. With a new username
and email address, so your user
registration endpoint is fully functioning
without any changes to your code at all. You need a particular
endpoint for the super admin, which will be used
to assign a user to the manager group or
remove them from it. Open the views.py file and
create a new function called managers with the APA view and permission
classes decorator. This endpoint can only be accessed with a
super admin token, so you need a special type of permission called is admin user. Import it from rest underscore framework
dot permissions important is admin user and add this is admin user class to the
permission classes decorator. Now met this function
in the little lemon API for /urls.py file to
the URLs buttons array. Test this endpoint with
a normal user token and super admin token
at four slash API, four slash groups, four slash manager, four slash users to the
end of the localhost URL. For a normal user token,
you'll note the error. When you call it with
the super admin token, you'll note the DRF
display messages. This endpoint should accept one post filled, the username. If the username is present, find the user and
add it to the group. For this, you must import the
user and group class like this from django.contrib.auth.models
import user, group. Now add some code
inner function. If the username is present
in the HTTP post call, you will find the user with the
gets_object_or_404 method. Then find the manager group and add this user to that group. Otherwise, return an error
with a 400 status code. Now open insomnia and make a post call to this
endpoint with a username. Use a super admin
token for this call. If everything is fine an
Okay message will display. Check what happens if you call this method with a user token. You also need to add support for delete calls to remove
user from this endpoint. You can do it with slight
changes to your code. Let's modify the Add to
Group function like this. After checking if the client
supplied the username, you should check
the method type. If the method type is posed, add this user to the group. If the method type is delete, remove the user from the group. Now you have a fully
functional API endpoint for the super admin to add and remove users from the groups. In this video, you'll learn how to register new users using the Djoser package
and how to enable the super admin to add users to a group or remove
them from one.