Authentication and
authorization are two of the most crucial parts
of every application. If done wrong, it can lead to data breaches or
data corruption. Knowing how the
authentication system works in Django and DRF is essential, but it can be tedious and time-consuming to do everything
from scratch every time. Wouldn't it be much
better if you could use a simple authentication library, configure it with just a
few lines of code and get a fully functional
authentication layer for your DRF project? That's what Djoser
enables you to do. In this video, you will
learn about Djoser, an easy to use authentication
package for DRF. Let's start with installing the Djoser package in your
project using Pip envy. Makes sure that
you have activated your virtual environment
using Pip envy shell first. Now run the command Pip
envy install Djoser, this will install
Djoser in your project, but you're not done yet. You need to configure
a few things first. Open your settings.py file and add the Djoser app in the
installed app section. Remember, it's
important that you keep Djoser after the
rest_framework app. Create a new section
called Djoser and add user ID field
and username to it, this is how you
specify which field in your user model will
act as the primary key. Sometimes, people prefer to use the email address
as the username, which you can change using the login underscore
field option. Let's go with the default
settings for now. Remember, you added the token
authentication class in the default
authentication class or section and the rest framework
earlier in this course. If you want to use the
Django admin login simultaneously with a
browsable API view of Djoser, you need to add this session
authentication class too. Don't worry, you
can remove it later at anytime before
going into production. Now, in your main URLs.py file, you need to enable
Djoser endpoints. Open this file and add these two lines in the
URL patterns section. Djoser offers a few
handy endpoints. Here is a list of them. Some of them support only the getMethod and
some of them support POST, PUT, PATCH and DELETE methods. You can access these
endpoints by adding HTTP://127.0.0.1:8000/auth in front of each one of them. You can access
these endpoints by adding them to the end
of the localhost URL. If you visit the
auth users endpoint and wants to add new users, then you need to login as a superuser in the
Django admin first. Then you can visit these
browsable API endpoints. There is a new button
called Extra actions added beside the options and GET button in the
browsable API view. Click on that to quickly perform the common operations related to the endpoint that
you are visiting. Click on the "Options"
button while visiting any of these endpoints in
the browsable API view, and you'll notice
full information like what parameters or HTTP methods
these end points accept. Let me guide you through
some of these endpoints. The users endpoint lists all the users and you can make a post call to create a new one. If you want to create
a new user from an API client like insomnia, you don't need to pass
any token to this API. You can also create
tokens for a user from the authtoken login endpoint. You can use insomnia to make an HTTP post call with username and password
and receive the token, or you can use the
browsable API view. There is a form with
username and password fields that you can use to
generate user tokens, and the final one is the
auth users me end point, make it get call with any user's token to this end point, and it will provide the details of the
authenticated user. This endpoint also supports a put call to update the
email address of this user. With this Djoser library and a few lines
of configuration, you get some handy API
endpoints to deal with users and token-based
authentication in your DRF project. Djoser library also offers a different type of
token-based authentication, which is called JSON
Web Token or JWT, and you will learn about
it later in this course. In this video, you learned about an authentication
package called Djoser. You learned how to install Djoser and configure
it correctly in your DRF API project to deal with users and
token-based authentication. You also learned about
the handy endpoints and their functions offered
by the Djoser library.