You've reached the end of
another week. Well done. Let's take a quick tour
of what you covered in this section of the
course about searching, ordering, and filtering data, and also how to control
access to your APIs. In the first lesson, you were introduced to the
concepts of filtering, ordering, searching,
and paginating. This included learning why
filtering is important, and how it is usually performed by passing
query strings, and you learned how
to order API results in both ascending and
descending order, as well as how to perform
multiple ordering. You learned about
data sanitization, and why it is important
from a security perspective because unsanitized data
can cause vulnerabilities. Next, you learned
how to paginate your restaurant menu items by specifying how many
items you want per page, and then you got the results for a specific page by providing
a page number to the API. Pagination helps the
server to perform better by consuming
less resources. After this, you learned about the benefits of caching
in an API project, and how it can help
overall performance, and you learned how to
cache an API result in DRF. In the first lesson's
ungraded lab, you implemented what you
learned in your own project by adding a category type and adding it to
your menu items, filtering foods by category, ordering food by price, ordering food by price
in a specific category, and paginating the menu items. In the second lesson, you learned all about
securing an API in Django REST
framework; therefore, you learned more about
token-based authentication in DRF by creating a
simple registration and login API that uses the generator tokens to
authenticate API calls. When it comes to security, user roles are pretty important, which is why you
learned how to create different types of
user roles in DRF. You also learned
how to set up API throttling and learned
what its advantages are. Next, you learned about Djoser library and
what the benefits are of using this library over DRF's built-in
authentication system. You also learned about new
authentication endpoints introduced by Djoser library for the registration and
sign-in process, as well as how to add Djosers
to your existing project. Finally, you used the
knowledge you gained about Djoser's to create a food
rating API with throttling. Overall, after
completing this week, you should be able to implement searching,
filtering, ordering, and pagination to optimize
the output of your APIs, explain how caching works on different layers in
an API architecture, use built-in token-based
authentication in DRF, create user roles, and implement throttling to
control access to your APIs. Lastly, you should
know how to use JSON Web Tokens to protect
your API endpoints. Only one more week
to go before you've completed the course. Good luck.