Today you can order almost
anything directly to your home. But did you know that one of the
functionalities that makes online shopping possible is HTML forms. Without them, you would not be able to enter your
credit card details during checkout. But forms are not limited to e commerce. You can use forms practically
every day on the internet. When you log into your favorite website,
you do it using a form. In this video, I'll take you through
the steps to create a form and introduce you to a few
different input types. But first,
let's briefly explore how forms work. To put it simply when a user enters
data on a website an HTML form submits an HTTP request containing
the data to the server. But how do you create
a form in the first place? You define forms with the html form tags. Forms also have an optional
form attribute called action. Action specifies the URL or path that
the form should submit the request to. When the action attribute
is not specified, it submits the request to the same
path as the current web page. There is also the FORM method, with the FORM method you can specify the
HTTP method to use for the HTTP request. There are two HTTP methods to
submit the form data, GET and POST. Remember the GET HTTP method retrieves
information from the server. The POST HTTP method
sends data to the server. When a user submits a form,
one of these HTTP methods is used. We'll explore how this is
done on a later course. Now let's explore how to add fields
that the user can enter data into. First, let's add a simple text field. For example, a user name field. The fields in a form
are specified by input tags. Note that the input tag does
not need a closing tag. But if I want to, I could close the tag by adding a forward
slash before the end of the input tag. When I use the text input type,
it displays a text field on the web page. But a text box on its own
isn't very user friendly, so I will now add a label above it. By adding the label tag, the form will now display the word
user name above the input field. Next, let's add a password field. In this case I won't use the text input
type since I don't want the password to be visible. HTML has an input type specific for passwords that will mask
the user's input data. The user name will be visible and
the password will be masked. Finally, I need to add a button so
the user can submit the form. So I used the input type, submit. When the user clicks the submit button, the HTTP request containing the form
content will be sent to the web server. In summary, you use the form tag at the
start of a form where after you indicate the method that should be used. You can create labels for
input types with the label tag, you use the text input type for
a text input like a user name. For a password,
you use the password input type. To add a submit button to a form,
you use the submit input type. There are many different
input types available. For example,
you can add checkboxes to a form. To do this,
you use the checkboxess input type. Each box can be checked or unchecked. You use the name and value attributes
to configure how the data is sent to the server, you will explore this
in more depth in a later course. Radio buttons on the other hand
are like checkboxes except only one button can be
checked in the group. Checking one radio button will
uncheck all the other radio buttons. There are also other types of inputs
such as the number, email and file upload types. However, some input fields
do not use the input tags. For instance the multi line text field. The text input type that I
showed you earlier is only for single line text content. To allow users to enter
multiple lines of text, I need to use the text area tag
instead of text input type. Another type of input that does not use
the input tag is a drop down list which contains items that the user can select. This time, you use the select tag and for
the items on the list you use option tags. You now know how HTML forms work and
the different input types, developers use. You covered form tags such as text,
password, checkbox, radio, text area and select. I can't imagine my life
without online shopping. Next time you order something online,
notice all the types of input the form includes and how you,
as a user interacts with it. You might notice that the user experience
of some forms is better than others. I'm sure that you are now able to
choose appropriate input types for the forms that you create.