My website for the lemon
is coming on well, but some key information is
still missing, the prices. The best way to add
information like a price list is by
using an HTML table. You might be familiar
with columns and rows in spreadsheets software. HTML tables look similar
and allow you to neatly organize content
in rows and columns. Websites almost always have
information that needs to be organized in a way that makes it quick and easy to read. For example, the
schedule of an event, available sizes of
clothing items, or the specs of a camera. In this video, I will
demonstrate how to create a symbol table for the
prices of little lemon. I want to add a table
with the prices to the bottom of the
index.html page. So I already have it open. Still within the body elements
below the anchor elements, I add the table tag. Inside of it, I add two table
row tags or TR tags, as they're commonly referred to. This will create a row
for each of the dishes. Now I need to add
table data tags or TD tags so that I can
include the prices. Table data tags define the
contents of table cells. So I need to add two of
those inside each row, one for the dish and
one for its price. In the first row, I type Falafel inside the
first table data tag. In the second table data tag, I add the price, let's say $10. I do the same with
the second row. I type Pasta Salad inside
the first table data tag, and a price of $12 inside
the second table data tag. Now I will save the file and
open it in my web browser. Great. The prices display at
the bottom of the webpage. However, the table is not displayed like a regular
table at the moment, but I will style it soon. To make it more
clear for my users, I'm going to add headers
to the columns now. To do this, I add a new row to the top of the table
with the table row tag. Then use the table header tag or TH tag for the heading cells. I need to add two
table header tags. I type dish in the
first column's heading, and price in the second heading. I save the HTML and refresh it again to check the
update in the browser.
Yes. The page layout is now better. The information
that's presented much clearer now that the
columns have headings, but it is not displayed
like a table, yet. I will add a bit of CSS to improve the styling
of the table. Don't worry about the
details just yet. But I would like to add
a little bit of magic now to get you excited
about styling. I will add a style tag. I will add a one pixel
border to the table. Let's save the file again
and open it in the browser. Now the table has a border
around all the cells. This is just a quick
method of styling a table. Later you will learn
how to do this using best practices with CSS. Congratulations.
You now know how to add tables to HTML files. I use tables extensively
and I am sure you will too.