as a web developer you should try to
ensure that everyone can access and enjoy the internet almost like
an architect that needs to design a building with ramps and rails so
that it is accessible by all. You need to build a website in
a certain way to improve accessibility. When the Web Accessibility Initiative or WAI was launched in 1997. The creator of the World Wide Web. Sir, Tim Berners-Lee said the power of
the Web is in its universality access by everyone regardless of
disability is an essential aspect. Web accessibility aims
to allow people with disabilities to understand navigate and
interact with websites. A common misunderstanding is that it
refers to visual disabilities but in fact it includes all disabilities
that affect interaction with websites such as audio and
visual disabilities, cognitive and neurological disabilities and
physical and speech disabilities. The W3C. Web Accessibility Initiative
developed specifications and supporting resources for accessibility. These are considered international
standards for web accessibility. In fact web accessibility is becoming
a requirement in many industries. In 2016. The European Union approved the web
accessibility directive which requires websites and mobile applications of public
sector bodies to be accessible to those with disabilities. Let's explore some examples of how
accessibility is provided to those with different disabilities. People living with disabilities often use
assistive technologies to aid them in browsing the web. Screen reader software
can read the content of websites and everything that is
happening on the device. Screen readers are used not only by
blind and vision impaired users but also by those with reading or
learning difficulties. Speech recognition software can turn
spoken words into computer commands or dictate inputting text. This is useful for people who may
not be able to use a mouse or keyboard due to physical or neurological
disabilities. Subtitles and video scripts and videos provide assistance to
those with audio and visual disabilities. There are many steps that you can
take to improve accessibility. It is good practice to think of
accessibility from the beginning of a project, it is a lot harder to rework
the project to be accessible later on. If you use the correct html structure and
appropriate elements as a foundation, it will greatly improve accessibility. In this
course you will learn to structure your html properly and follow best practices
to support assistive technologies for example having text that is not contained
within proper tags like paragraph or heading tags makes it harder for assistive
technologies to interact with the content. Similarly using multiple line
breaks to break up text and add space also presents
barriers to accessibility. These are just simple examples
to improve web accessibility. However, in the future you'll probably
develop very complex user interfaces and to make them accessible may
not be as straightforward as just having correct html. Fortunately one of the tasks of the WAI
is to define the accessible rich internet application or aria. Specification. The aria specification outlines different
techniques to improve accessibility for complex web apps. Now, you know about different assistive
technologies and that you should use the correct html structure and appropriate
elements to improve accessibility.