A picture is worth 1000 words as they say. I think you will agree that a website
without pictures wouldn't provide a very good user experience. Especially websites about food. My example website about Little Lemon
could certainly use a few images. In this video you will learn how to add
images to HTML documents using the image or IMG tag as it is commonly known. I have to image files
in my project folder, one name falafel.jpeg and
another named salad.jpeg. Similar to what I did with document links, I have to specify the link to
the image file using the image tag. Images are not inserted into web pages. Instead we use image tags in
HTML to link to image files. The image tag then creates a placeholder
for the image on the web page. To add an image tag,
I type img and inside it I add the src attribute or
source attribute as it is known. I type falafel.jpeg As a source for one image, And salad.jpeg, As a source for the other image. Let's save the file and
open it in the web browser. The images are displayed but
they are way too big. Luckily there are several ways
to set the size of an image but in this video I will just
demonstrate how to do this in HTML. Right after the sourcing in the image tag, you can specify
the dimensions of an image. I first add the width attribute,
And set it to 240 pixels. Then I add the height attribute and set it to 135 pixels. I'll set the other image
to the same dimensions. Let's save and
view it in the browser again. Much better, the images are smaller. But there is one important attribute that
you should always include with image tags. It is good practice to add
a short description for images. It helps improve accessibility for
people using assistive technologies and it can also improve
search engine rankings. You can add image descriptions with the
alternative text attribute also known as the alt attribute. Still within the image tag after
the dimensions attributes you can add the alt attribute. I will type a short description,
A falafel and for the other image I will type,
A pasta salad. I will save the Html file again and
open it in the web browser. The all text is not displayed
anywhere on the site but will be read by assistive
technologies such as screen readers. Screen readers and other accessibility
tools use the altar tribute to provide information to their users. Now you know how to add images
to websites with the image tag. Little Lemon website is now ready for
everyone who uses the web. Have fun while you make your
sites colorful by adding images