In this video, I
will guide you  through the blueprints of
a HTML document. I will create a
very simple webpage for a restaurant
called Little Lemon. The great thing
about HTML documents is that you don't need
the web to view them. Yes, they don't have
to be hosted on a web server for you to view
them in your web browser. You can save HTML files on your computer and view them locally with your web browser, almost like eating
takeaways at home. By the end of this
video, you'll be able to identify the structure of a HTML document and
create a basic webpage,. To create a HTML file
and Visual Studio Code. Right-click in the Explorer
panel and select New File. I'll name it index.html. By now you know
that HTML documents are made up of
elements and tags. But before I can add
elements or tags, I first need to create a standard HTML structure which starts with the
DOCTYPE declaration tag. This notifies the web browser
that is a HTML documents. Next, I create the HTML tag, which is also known as
the HTML root element. Inside the HTML tag, I add two main elements. The head and the body elements. Is important to note
that nothing inside the head element is displayed on the webpage in
the web browser. In the head element,
you add information or metadata about the
HTML documents. It is not part of the
content of the webpage. For example, inside
the head tag, you always create
the title elements. This is the title
that is displayed in the web browser tab. I can also link to CSS files and define Meta tags in
the head section. Meta tags can, for instance, specify the description
of the web page, keywords for search engines and the author of the web page. Next up, I add the content of the webpage inside the body tag. The body can contain
elements such as headings, paragraphs, images, and videos. Let me start by adding
a main heading on the webpage by using the H1 tag. Inside the H1 tag, I typed the heading, Our Menu. That's good. Now I need to
start creating my menu. I want to add two items. To do that, I add
two subheadings. For this, I use the H2 tag. The menu items in
the subheadings are falafel and pasta salad. But first I need to save
the file by pressing But first, I need to save the file by pressing the keys Control and S
or if you're on a Mac, Command and S. Now, I right-click on my
index.html file in the explorer panel and select
Reveal in File Explorer. If you're not using Windows operating system, , this may be called reveal in finder or reveal
in file browser. Now the file browser
opens and lists the file. I double-click on index.html and it opens in the web browser. Great, it's all there. The title that displays
in the browser tab matches the title that I
added to the head section and the content is displayed in the browser window but
it is still a bit empty. I go back to Visual Studio Code and add a short
description for each dish. I do this by adding a paragraph tag below
each subheading H2. Let's imagine a nice falafel. I type chickpea,
herbs, and spices. What goes into the
pasta salad again? Lettuce, vegetables,
and mozzarella. Yummy. I save the file again
to update the changes. and open it in my web browser again There you go. Now
the ingredients are also included in the menu. Some of the best websites
are websites about food. Whenever you need
some inspiration, search for food
website ideas online, you will be fascinated. Now that you know
some basic HTML tags, try to identify where they
were using those websites. There are many HTML tags that you can use
in your webpages. But now you're familiar with the few elementary ones and I encourage you to
start practicing with them. Best of luck.