By now you should know how
to build a basic webpage but how do you build a website? Remember, websites consists of
multiple webpages linked together. To link pages together. You use the anchor tag anchor
tag create hyperlinks or links as they are commonly known. In this video, you will learn how to link different web
pages together to create your own website. In my project folder. I now create a second webpage for Little Lemon that will contain
the address of the restaurant. I right click in the explorer
panel to create a new file and name it location.html. I use the same file structure
created in my index  file but add new content I add a new H1 tag for
the heading and type our location. Next I add a paragraph tag and
insert the address 123 Home Road,
Main Districts, Capital city. I press control and S to save the file or
command and S on Mac. Now that my new file with
the restaurant location is created. Let's navigate back to index.html to
add a link from there to location.html file. Below the last paragraph
tag I add the anchor or a tag followed by the href tribute or
hypertext reference. Now I need to specify where the hypertext reference should link to. I typed the file name, location.html so
that my index.html file will link to it. Within a tag I can also add
a descriptive text that is displayed as a link name on my web page. So I type our location. The text our location will now display
on the web page in the browser as a clickable link. Let's test see if it works. I saved the file to update it with the
changes and open it in my web browser by right clicking on the index.html file and
selecting Reveal in File Explorer. If you're not on Windows,
this may be called Reveal in Finder or Reveal in File Browser. I then double click on the index file. The words are location are displayed
in blue by the web browser, success. If I click on the blue link,
the browser opens the location.html file. You can now link different HTML files
together to create your website. Best of luck.