In this video, you'll explore how to handle
exceptions in Python. You will learn how to change
error messages and how to wrap your code within try
and Except statements. As an example, I will write
a simple math function. I define a new function
called divide by and allow it to accept
two parameters, A and B. The purpose of this
function is to return the value of the division
of both numbers. In the next line, I'll type
return a divided by b. Now, I add a print statement
for the divide by function. Inside the print statement. I'll also add a new set of parentheses with a
value of 40 and 4. These are the values that will be divided by the function. I click on "Run" and the
value returned is 10 which is correct because four
goes into 40, 10 times. Now, let's test what
will happen if I pass in the values of 40 and 0. Now, when I click on "Run", I get an error or an exception. The exception in this case says zero division error,
division by zero. It gives this error
because in math you can't divide
a number by zero. You might agree that getting cryptic errors
could upset users, so the question is, how can you handle errors in
a more user-friendly way? How can you prevent
a user from seeing the actual exception
being printed out? You do this with Python's
try and except statements. Simply type try, colon, and then the next
line except, colon. You add the code that you want to run within the try statement, so I delete the prints they met the bottom and cut the
divide by zero function. Within the try
statement, I type A, and S equals, and paste the function. Now, in the except statement, I will add my own
error statement. I add a print statement
for the string , something went wrong. Let me just clear the terminal, so you can focus on the output. I click on "Run" and now the
error statement is printed. So what's happening? The try statement
will try and execute the code that you
added inside it. If an exception occurs, it will trigger the
except line and execute any code added underneath
the except statement, but Python allows you to make the except
statement more specific. If you want to trap the
exception itself you could add the base class exception
right after except. The base class
exception is used for all exceptions that are
written within Python. You can gain access to the
exception information by using the as E after exception. The E variable acts as an
alias for the exception. I can use E to print out the exception in
the print statement, so let's edit the
print statement. I add E at the end of
the error message, I press "Run" and what happens? Our custom message
is printed out, but the contents of
E are also printed, so this time it reads something went wrong,
division by zero. In Python, you can
also get access to the actual type or class of
exception that's occurred. To do this, I add another
print statement of E.underscore class, underscore. I run this statement
one more time. This time the output includes
the class of error as well namely class
zero division error. Let me clear the terminal again. Let's take this one
step further to provide even more specific
feedback to the end user. In the except statement, I replaced the base
class exception with the actual error
that was printed out namely zero division error. I will change the print statement
so that at first prints the actual error by adding E at the start
of this statement, and now I'll add some user-friendly text saying
we cannot divide by zero. I click on "Run" and now the
output is division by zero, we cannot divide by zero. Up to this point, you've
covered how to wrap your code with the try,
and except statements, and how to optimize the
message that a user sees, but how can you handle more than one exception without knowing what
they are ahead of time? Fortunately, you can chain the except statement by adding
another except statement. Say the code doesn't trip the zero division error and
the first except statement. You could add another
except statement that tests for a
generic exception. Now, add the base
class exception. Again, I add a print
statement with E and a message with some
general information. I'll click on "Run"
and in this case because there is
still a math error, the function will still trip at the first except statement, but this gives you a good idea of how you can test
for more exceptions. Congratulations. You now know how to wrap
code in the try and except statements to handle all potential exceptions
in your code.