In this video, you
will learn how to create files in Python and explore methods of inserting
content into a new file. Files are used to
permanently stored data. Anything stored in the
variables of your code exists in random
access memory or RAM. Since RAM loses its data when
the computer is turned off, it's important to be
able to create files, so data is available for future use or as a
permanent record. In Python, we can
create new files using the open function and
enabling the write mode. Let's start with
a short example. I'll use a with statement with the open function and pass
in the following parameters. Our file will be newfile.text. We'll set the mood by
passing mode equals w. Now, I assign this file to a
variable by typing, "As file." A shorthand way to assign
the mode is to enter a single character that
represents the mode you need. In this case, I can
replace mode equal to w with just the letter w and
it means the same thing. Now that I have access to the newly created
file as a variable, I can begin to add content to the file using the
write function. On a new line, I
type file.write. I'm going to add
some simple text. This is a new file created. When I click Run, the Explorer pane on the left
hand side of VS code displays that my file called newfile.text has been
generated as a new file. Clicking once on the new file to select it displays
its content and confirms that the text
I pushed through using the write function is
now present in the file. If I choose to write
multiple lines of contents of the file
instead of a single line, I can use the
Writelines function. The Writelines function
accepts a list. A list in Python
is represented by square brackets and then
a comma for each line. I edit my file.write to
say file.writelines. Then within square brackets, I add a comma after the sentence and type
the next sentence; this is another
line to be added. I click on Run and
the new file.text now has the two lines created
by my Writelines function. But it's not exactly the
way I need it to be. Python will add the
contents of the list exactly as it's specified
within the list. If I want the content
to break on a new line, I need to specify a
new line by putting in a backslash and the
letter n, no space. Just inside the open quote
of the second sentence, I add backslash n. Now,
when I click on Run, the content of newfile.text is more readable with each
sentence on a separate line. One thing to note is that
every time I run my script, it's replacing the current file. For example, if I
insert the number 2 into the first line of text, click on Run, then
check my text file, that has now replaced the
previous file with one where I just added the number
2 in the first sentence, thus overriding the
existing file with a fresh new file.text. On the other hand,
if I want to add to the file as opposed to
replacing it each time, I just need to change
the action of mode. To do so, I replace the letter
w and put in a letter a, which stands for append. Now I click on Run three times, then I check my
newfile.text to find that the contents have been added
and now has multiple lines. However, it has not pulled in exactly the way I
wanted it to be. The reason for that is I don't have a new line specified
at the very beginning, so I add a backslash n
before my first sentence. Since I need to
replace the file, I change the mode back to w to ensure I'm overriding
the last file. I click on Run and that replaces the existing lines
that were there. Now I want to add
to the file again. I change the mode back to Append by changing
the w to an a, and I click Run three times. I check the file
and confirm that the new lines were
appended each time. The final part of my code
will be to trap exceptions. Always keep in mind the
necessity to deal with any exception by using the
try and accept statements. I add a new line above
my existing code and there I type, "Try colon". As an example, I use
filenotfound error, which is an error
that occurs often. This needs two new lines
added to the end of my code. I type except filenotfound error as e and press Enter
for a new line. Then to print out the
error I type,F print error comma e. Now to force
the error to happen, let's say I asked for
a directory that I know doesn't exist in
my current directory. The faulty directory
is called sample. I edit my code to read sample
forward slash newfile.text. Now, I'll clear my terminal
and run my screen again. I get the error generated
by my print command, no such file or directory. Take care when you are creating files that the directory where you want to place the
file actually does exist. In cases like that, you must ensure that directory
already exists or create a directory
from within Python and then create
the file inside it. In this video, you learned about creating files
within Python using the append and write
modes and inserting single or multi-line
content into the file.