Welcome to this course on
full-stack development. You've come a long way
with all the other courses you've completed in the
back-end developer series. Like in the previous
course about APIs, you delve deeper into
the processes and concepts behind APIs and
their infrastructure. Now you probably
want to know what lies ahead with this course. Let's begin. Full-stack is about end-to-end application
software development. That means that as a
full-stack developer, you will be involved in
every step of a project. Take for example, the
little lemon restaurant that you've been working
with throughout the courses. The restaurant has a homepage
with menu items that customers can browse and order by adding
items to their cart. This process requires a
front-end infrastructure and some business logic
written in the back-end. The back-end also connects the application to other
services like databases. As a full-stack developer, you will be able to implement
every part of this project. Now, let's move on to
the content the course will cover to make sure you're ready for such an endeavor. Module 1 offers an
introduction to the full-stack and what a
full-stack developer does. This entails learning
about the roles and responsibilities of a
full-stack developer, as well as making sure you understand
N-tier architecture. Module 2 is all about
front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Some of the key concepts
you'll learn about are semantic HTML and basic forms, CSS and responsive layouts, and how to update an HTML
document using JavaScript. Then you'll move
on to learn how to use Django with the full-stack. You'll get an
opportunity to build a full-stack application
using Django. That sounds like
valuable knowledge. You'll discover how to populate Django model for
a MySQL database, query an API, and update an HTML
document with the result. In Module 4, you will learn about
production environments, for example, you will explore the different environments that web applications
are deployed to. You'll learn about the
different hosting solutions available for your
web applications. Very importantly,
you'll also learn about the Cloud computing
environment that can make your life easier
in several ways. Lastly, you will cover the challenges of scaling
web applications. After all of this, you will be ready for the final project, which consists of several
labs that will help you put together the skills
you learned in the course, and implement your code
in the full-stack. The labs include connecting the little lemon restaurant
back-end to MySQL, setting up a booking
API for the restaurant. Lastly, displaying little lemons available
booking times. After this hands-on learning, you will have to complete
one final graded assessment. But be assured that
everything you need to do for the assessment will be
covered during your learning, with each lesson made up of video content,
readings and quizzes. There are many videos
in the course that will gradually guide you towards your goal of becoming
a developer. Watch, pause, rewind, and re-watch the videos until you are confident
in your skills. Then consolidate your knowledge by consulting the
course readings and putting your skills into practice during the
course exercises. Along the way, you'll
encounter several knowledge quizzes where you
can self check your progress. Remember, you're not alone in considering a career
as a developer, which is why you also
work with course discussion prompts that help you to connect with
your classmates. It's a great way to share
your knowledge, disgust, difficulties, and grow a network of contacts in the
development world. To be successful in this course, it's helpful to commit to a regular and disciplined
approach to learning. Although this is an
online self-paced course, you need to be serious
about your studies, and if possible, map out
a steady schedule with dates and times that you can devote to attending the course. In summary, this course
provides you with a complete introduction to
full-stack development. You'll have the
opportunity to build a new application using
your developer skills. This will set you
on your way towards a career and full-stack
development. Looking forward to accompanying you on your learning journey.