I think one of the biggest shockers with
people is that the stereotypical engineer is someone you know in a dark
room with a computer Hans Tober, typing on the keyboard. But when you go into software engineering,
especially in corporate setting, there's a lot more communication,
collaboration, talking to people. Being able to figure out
what you have to build and do it with people is just so
much more bigger than people think. [MUSIC] [LAUGH] My name is Dez,
I'm a software engineer and I work in the Meta office in DC and
the integrity organization. You obviously have to build
software since that's the job. But because of Metas bottoms up
culture a lot of times you see you have to align with various
teams across the company. So we spend a lot of time in actually
writing out what you have to build, design documents and sharing with
other teams and getting feedback. So that we build stuff that everyone
is sort of on the same page with. So you always have to make sure that
everyone is aligned with the same objective when you do good work,
people have to know you do good work. So a lot of time is spent
on written communication. So you have to usually write notes and
stories about what you're doing. So that other people can know what you and your team are doing as you
work on those projects. The programming language I work
with mostly is called hack. Unlike other languages, we don't expect anyone that joins
the company to know it already. So we have that ability for
you to learn and get up to speak, almost a good thing that
no one else uses hack. Because everyone that joins the company is
on the same equal for the investors like something else that someone else
may know already before they join. So we have to be able to move fast but also balance that with our
existing user-based on products. And what ends up happening is that there's
just a ton of overhead in terms of communication that you have to do to make
sure that everyone is on the same page. And you don't have do anything
that may have a negative impact. So it's good because you get to interact
with a lot of different people and learn a lot, but it causes
challenges just because like I said, there's a lot of extra stuff you
have to do for every little change. So just trying to balance that risk and
still be nimble and fast is something that I
think it's a big challenge. Being able to look at problems and
break them down and then break them down into something
that is more manageable and solvable. Is one of the things that
I have to do day to day, something else that is to scale yourself. So a lot of times, problems are too big
for one person and we have to learn how we can sort of work together with people
in our teams and an external teams. To basically achieve these bigger
problems in an efficient way. And that's something that I think for our engineers to definitely value
in terms of what they can do. I would say every software engineer
is expected to grow into a leader. One of the things you see in Meta is we
have sort of like a career progression for engineers and
I think most companies do also. But the idea is that when you graduated
from college, you started at the first level and when you started initially,
you're doing more task-based work. Whereas people give you tasks and you get
it done and as you grow in your career, you begin to have more initiative and
have to drive more projects. So you go from, hey, do this task to,
I'm going to find work to do and create tasks and do them myself. And then you go to, I'm going to find work
to do and give task to other people and help them grow in their career. I hope that you take away that being
an engineer is something that can be very fulfilling. So I would say, even though it feels
difficult initially, I would say to stick with it and see how things go at the end,
versus like giving up too early. Because the sort of like end result could
be something that you wouldn't even imagine. Good luck for the rest of the chorus, and hopefully I'll see you in
the industry someday in the future.