in this video, I will demonstrate how to
use PyTest to create simple tests for unit testing. Py test is one of the most popular
modules for unit testing in python. This is because it allows you to do
simple tests with minimal effort and it also has simple clean code
with good documentation. First I create a file called addition.py. Next I add a function and
past two variables A and B inside it. I'm just going to do a simple calculation
that will return the sum of these two variables. Similarly, I create another function
called sub which will perform the subtraction between the two variables. Second, I create another file called
test edition dot py in which I'm going to write my test cases. Now I import the file that consists of
the functions that need to be tested. Next, I'll also import the py test module. After that I define a couple of
test cases with the addition and subtraction functions. Each test case should be named
test underscore then the name of the function to be tested. In our case we'll have test underscore
ad and test underscore sub. I'll use the assert keyword inside these
functions because tests primarily rely on this keyword. It checks for conditions in your code and
expects a boolean value of true or false. When the return value is true, the test
passes when it is false the test fails. Let's add a certain
statements to our tests. In our first test will assert that
the addition of 4 and 5 is nine. And in the second test will assert
that the subtraction of four and 5 is negative one. Next I make a split screen so
that I could see both files. Now I run py test and I specify the file
over which I'm going to do the testing. To do this, open a new terminal and
enter python dash m py test and the name of the test
file test edition dot py. I ran the code and both tests passed. This means that both the assert statements
have been confirmed to be true. 4+5 is 9 and 4 -5 is -1. These two dots after
test edition dot py in the terminal also indicate
that both tests passed. Now I will intentionally make
one of these tests fail. I do this by changing the -1 answer to -2. I make sure that I have saved the file,
clear my terminal and I'll run the test again. Note that the first test passed but the 2nd 1 didn't also note that where
there were previously two dots. There is now only one and an f to
indicate that the second test failed. The ease at the start of the lines
show where the test failed and it supplies the possible
reason as to why it failed. I can also write these tests
without the assert statement and just add pass this passes the test
regardless of any errors. When I run the code again it
indicates that both tests passed. You should note that I used an equality
operator here but I could have used less than greater than or keywords such
as is, in or not in all that matters. Is that the assert statement
gets a boolean value? I can also add multiple assert
statements in a single function. So if I write assert true,
that's your return the result. And when I run the code
again it passes both tests. But if I make it false,
it will show that one test has failed. This indicates that all the assert
statements within a given function should return a true value for
the test to pass. Note that using the test
underscore prefix for both the file name as well as
the function name is good practice. Now I'll restore my code and
save the file. If I want to run my test over
a specific function, I just add a double colon at the end of the file
name and then I write the function name. I'll clear my terminal 1st. Then run my code. Note that only the function
I specified has run. Congratulations. You now know about simple functions. In this video you learned that you could
use py test to implement unit testing and how to create and
use simple tests for unit testing.