In this video, you'll
learn about how to apply the test-driven
development methodology. In conventional testing, you follow the process
of writing code and then writing test cases to ensure the integrity
of that code. In test-driven
development or TDD, the approach is the
other way round, and test case is where you
must begin your thinking. The steps involved
are as follows. Write test cases with some
functionality in mind. Write code in accordance with the test cases ensuring
that they pass, and refactor code in
case the tests fail. Let me demonstrate an example
to design a test case that check students enrollment with data stored in a database. The test needs to check the integrity of
the names entered. First, I'll demonstrate how
to design the test case, and then write some code. Let's say I'm checking
students enrollments for a class exam against the list of names that I already have. To keep things straight forward, I'm going to use a Python list with names instead
of a database. I want to make sure
that the names I enter are on the list. I also want to ensure
data integrity, which means that I
must be sure that the names are entered
in the correct format. I've created two files. The first is test_findstring, which is my testing file, and the second findstring
is my main file. I already have the pytest
package installed, and because this is
test-driven development, I'll write my test
function first. I begin by importing a
curses module that will help me check the A-S-C-I-I
characters that are present. Then I import the pytest module, as well as the
findstring module, which is my main file. I define a function
named test_ is present, and I add an assert statement to check if the ispresent
function works, because I'm going to use it
to validate my data entry. Contrary to the conventional
approach of writing code, I first write
test_findstring.py, and then I add the test
function named test_ispresent. In accordance with the test, I create another file
named findstring.py, in which I'll write the
ispresent function. I define the function
named ispresent, and I pass an argument
called person in it. Then I make a list of
names written as values. After that, I create a
simple if else condition to check if the passed arguments is present inside the list. The function called ispresent will check if the name passed
is present in the list. Let me test my code. Note that the test has passed because the name
Al is in the list. But this doesn't
ensure the integrity of entries I may add. For example, I might not want numeric characters
in the names. To address this issue, I write another function
named test_nodigit. I'm going to update some of
the code in my main program, findstring.py, in accordance
with the newly added test. To do this, I create a function called no digit that
matches my tests. Again, I create a simple
if else condition. I run the code, and you'll note that one of the
tests have passed, and the other one has failed. The name Al passed because
it's on the list of names. But the value of N7 didn't pass because it contains
a numeric character. I could also add more
test cases and modify my code so that it's
suitable for the test cases. I can repeat the cycle until
I have no more failed tests. Congratulations. You've now explored the test-driven
development methodology.