With advancements
in technology and increasing drivers
towards code automation. In this video,
you'll learn about test automation packages and the importance of
automated testing. In the past, machines have substituted human
efforts in making goods, which helps us save
both time and effort. In programming, the
tests chosen for automation are the
ones that have high repeatability and volume, predictable environments, and data, and determinants outcomes. There are a number of testing types that
can be automated. These include units,
regression, and integration. An ideal test code
must form a bridge between the programming
codes and the test cases. Python does a fine job in achieving this in
addition to its clean, concise way of coding. There are some
well-written frameworks in Python and some are more
well-accepted than others. The ideal steps involved in test automation are usually preparing the test environment, running the test scripts, and analyzing the results. Let's now examine some important Python
testing frameworks that have grown in
popularity over the years. First, let's explore the
built-in testing package per unit or unittest. The unittest framework
supports test automation, independent testing modules, and aggregation of tests
into collections. The first is Pytest and native Python library
that is simple, easy to use, and
reasonably scalable. Pytest will be demonstrated
later in this course. It can handle several functional test
types such as unit, integration, and end-to-end. There is support for parameterized testing
which enables us to execute unit tests multiple times with different
parameters passed. It can run parallel tests
and generates HTML, XML, or plain texts reports. You can also integrate it with other frameworks like
Pyunits and nose too, and web frameworks
like Flask and Django. While primarily used
with testing APIs, it's also well used with UI, database connections, and
other web applications. Easy creation and
quick bug fixes a why Pytest is the most popular testing framework
for automation. Next is Robot, which is popular primarily for its keyword-driven
development capabilities. These keywords are
used in test cases and can be predefined
or user-defined. Robot is very versatile and
use for acceptance testing, robotic process automation, or RPA, and test-driven
development. It can be used for many domains, including Android,
APIs, and mainframes. Selenium is another
open-source testing framework that has gained
popularity over time, and it's primarily driven
towards a web applications. It has support for the majority
of web browsers and OS. There a browser-specific
web drivers that enable testing
functionalities like login, button clicks, and
filling out forms. It allows the test set to select the speed
and execution of tests and it has
an option to run specific tests or tests suites. Apart from the popular
frameworks Pytest, robot, and selenium,
there are many more. It's important to
know that a number of these testing
frameworks are often used with other tools
such as plug-ins, widgets, extensions, test
runners, and drivers. These tools help integrate the software pieces being
tested and add functionality. Sometimes more
than one framework has employed over the
code being tested. In this video, you learned about test automation packages. Let's recap quickly. Automation testing is
an important reason why the software industry is able to move ahead swiftly
and more smoothly. Manual testing provides focused attention and the ability to handle nuances and complex problems with
more sophistication. This kind of testing can't be replaced by automated tests yet. It still sometime before test scenarios can
be fully automated, but the development of
all these frameworks are in line with that endeavor.