Testing has been a
relatively recent entry in the software
development life cycle but it's importance has been
growing as time passes. Software development is time sensitive and in the process, developers often
find testing gets squeezed into the time remaining after the
code is written. This doesn't leave enough
time to test and can lead to the software containing bugs that need to be dealt
with over time. Test-driven development or TDD is an alternative
programming practice in which the tests are
written first and the code is written so
that the tests will pass. This difference from the
convention of first writing the code and testing the
application progressively, TDD follows an
iterative approach beginning with writing
the test cases. The initial work requires feature and test
planning by the team. With slight variations, let's
explore the standard steps. Step 1, you write a test
for a feature that fails. In Step 2, you write code in
accordance with the tests. Step 3 requires that you run the test expecting them to fail. In Step 4, you evaluate the error and refactor
the code as needed. Finally, in Step 5, you rerun the process. This process is also called
the red-green-refactor cycle. Red implies the failed tests and green shows the passing
tests after refactoring. The whole point of following
this cycle is to fail the tests and rewrite
until you don't have to. A feature is complete when everything is green and you
no longer need to rerun. You can use a package
libraries such as Pytest when automation
becomes a priority. Pytest only requires
writing functions while a unit test
requires classes. This means that pytest
has the advantage of being easier because it
requires less effort. Now let's explore some of the advantages you
gain from TDD. Writing tests first
and refactoring code based on it ensures
the test cover the code. You can now write tests with a specific feature
and outcome in mind. The need for such forecasting provides clarity
from the beginning. The forecasting also
plays a role in integrating different
components where you add new features and interfaces in accordance with the components
that are already there. Working in cycles over
the code gives us develop a competence that easily refactor in terms of
additional changes. Overall, smaller code with early bug fixes,
code extensibility, and eventual ease
of debugging are the primary reasons TDD
is growing in acceptance. Finally, let's briefly
explore some of the differences between TDD
and traditional testing. The main difference
is that with TDD, the requirements and
standards are highlighted from the beginning,
making it purposeful. Modern-day development
often employs a combination of both
these forms of testing, depending on the
different parts and stages of the software
development cycle. There are several subtypes and variations of
test-driven development. These include;
behavior-driven acceptance, test-driven, scaling, and developer
test-driven development. These are all
options that can be used in the software
development process. Congratulations. In this video, you learned about the process
of test-driven development.