You've reached the end of this
module on Python modules, packages, libraries,
and tools, great work. During this module, you
learned that Python is a powerful language that allows you to build amazing things. But it can gain even
more functionality with the use of modules,
libraries, and tools. You may remember that we started with modules and learned that they are the building blocks for adding functionality
to your code. You don't need to
continually redo everything. Next, we explored some of the commonly used
Python libraries in data analysis
and data science. Lastly, you discovered
that testing as a tool is an essential component in quality assurance and
ensures your software, applications and websites
work as expected. It's now time to recap the key lessons you learned and the skills that you gained. With that in mind, let's summarize the key points
you learned in this module. You should now be
able to explain what modules are in Python
and why they are used. Identify the different types of modules and explain
where they can be found. Explain how to access built-in and
user-defined modules from different locations, and use import statements to access modules from
different directories. You should also
be able to create packages from the Python
Package Index using pip, write modules using
import statements, and explain and use the
reload function in Python. You have now learned
that Python has an extensive collection
of packages, and should be able to describe
typical module use cases, differentiate between built-in and user-defined
Python packages, list some popular
Python packages, and list some common
Python libraries using data analysis
and data science. In the module, you
also learned about libraries, frameworks
and testing. You should therefore,
also be able to recognize popular Python libraries using machine learning and
artificial intelligence, explain big data and
analysis with Python, define Python web frameworks, and list different types
of web frameworks, describe testing and explain the different types of testing, list four main levels or
categories of testing, describe testing packages
in Python such as PyTests, Selenium, robot, and explore the importance
of automated testing. You should now be able to explain test-driven development, TDD methodology, and list the features of
test-driven development. This module was an
introduction to Python modules,
libraries, and tools. This knowledge enables you to extend the ability of
your programming code.