In this video, you'll
learn about algorithms. An algorithm is a
series of steps to complete a given task
or solve a problem. On a day-to-day basis, you use algorithms all the
time to complete tasks. One such example is following a recipe to make an egg omelet. First, you have the list of ingredients to
using your omelets. This can be called your inputs. Next is the method or
the instructions to follow step-by-step
to create your dish. Finally, you complete
your omelet, your output. The steps to make the omelets
are the same every time. An algorithm in programming
works in a similar way. In programming, algorithms
are used to solve a multitude of
problems that range from simple to very complex. The key to understanding
and creating an algorithm is to break the
problem into smaller parts, just like the egg omelet recipe. That way, you build up
the steps to complete the algorithm that will
resolve the overall problem. Now, let's explore a practical application
of algorithms in coding. I'm going to demonstrate
a particular algorithm that checks if a word
is a palindrome. A palindrome is a word that
can be spelled the same, both backwards and forwards. For example, the word race car is a palindrome
because I can spell it forward as R-A-C-E-C-A-R
and backwards, it's still the same R-A-C-E-C-A-R. To be able to check if a word
is a palindrome, I need to use an algorithm. As mentioned earlier,
an algorithm is a series of steps
to solve a problem. Let me break down the problem. I know the string in
my example, racecar, has an index and I need
to check if the index at the front of the string is equal to the index at
the end of the string. In this way, I can compare the
two values of the indexes. I print str0 because
that's the first index, and I also print str6 because
that's the last index. I can just count this
up to double-check 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Then I click on Run. The output is the two
values I need to compare. Both of which are the letter r at the beginning and
at the end of racecar. Now I'm going to break down our problem into smaller steps. First, I need to check
if the value of Index 0 is equal to the value
of the last Index 6, which in this case is r. Then I need to check that the
next or second character, which is Index 1, is equal to the second
last character, which is Index 5. Finally, I need to check if Character 2 is equal
to Character 4. What I need to do is to check if these conditions
are true or false. Let's check how I can write
this out in some code. I begin by creating a
function def is palindrome. I know that it will accept a single parameter called
string, which I've entered. Now I want to get
the starting index as well as the end index. I put the start index into a
variable that equals zero. Every string will always
start at the Index 0 and then the end index is going to be the
length of the string. I enter end index equals len function str
and then minus 1. This is because a string
always starts at zero, and I have to think
about the last index. Next, what I want to do is iterate through the
string itself and compare the starting index with the end index characters to validate that they are the same. To do this, I create
a for loop by typing 4x in str and I'll make the comparison
within the for loop. I can check if the first index is equal to the last index. Since the two characters
r and r are the same, it will continue to be true, but it would be quicker for
me to check if it's false because then I'll know straight away if it's not a palindrome. I do an if statement and I use the string being passed
in as the parameter. Then I use the start index
to get the character. Then I check if
it's not equal to the string within the end index. If this condition is met, it will return false, which confirms that
it's not a palindrome. But if the condition is never
met outside the for loop, then it returns true, which confirms that
it's a palindrome. I've done all the checks across the starting index
and the end index, and it returns back
to the condition of true to confirm that
it's a palindrome. Now I'm going to
test the algorithm to verify that it works. I'll use a print statement. I call the is
palindrome function and I pass in racecar because I
know that it's a palindrome. I click on Run, and it
returns the value of true. If I change racecar to
racecars and I run it again, the condition of
false is returned. This is an example of creating an algorithm inc ode
to solve a problem. It has a series of steps that have to be followed to
resolve the problem in code to give back the condition of is the string a
palindrome or not? Now you know how useful
algorithms can be as a step-by-step way to solve
a problem with coding. An algorithm can be used to solve problems whether
smaller or complex. Once the steps of an
algorithm are created, they will then execute the same way each time
the algorithm is used.