Developers can
structure their code in many different ways. Python allows for object
oriented, procedural, and functional
programming models, or as they're often
called paradigms. In this video, I'll focus
on procedural programming, which is like writing
step-by-step instructions this program executes. It's an important stepping stone to object oriented programming. Therefore, as a new developer, it's important to
learn more about it. The main purpose of a programming model is
to structure your code. That structure makes it
easier to update the code and create new functionality
within the code. But there's no one perfect model that's a solution to
coding structures, and sometimes a combination
of approaches works best. Procedural programming
structures code into procedures, sometimes called subroutines or functional sections of code. Because of this approach, the code is made up of logical steps to complete
a specific task. For example, adding two
numbers to return their sum. I can add together the numbers 5 and 10 with a short
piece of code. Now I want to add together
the numbers 8 and 4. However, the code I wrote was specifically to add 5 and 10. For my new numbers,
I must create another similar piece of
code to do the calculation. That would not be a very
efficient way to code. Instead, I changed the
code into a function that will accept two numbers as
arguments and return the sum. With this function, I don't declare the actual
numbers as variables, instead, I use the
parameters a and b. Less code is needed. But something more
important has happened. I now have the
function called sum, which can be re-used
as many times as I like with many different
sets of numbers. In programming, there is
a principle called DRY. Don't repeat yourself. It's all about reducing
duplication in code. The original code I wrote to add two numbers together to return their sum
is a good example of what not to do
because I had to write the code twice to accommodate
the second set of numbers. A guideline to keep
in mind is to create functions that can be reused
throughout your application. Let's examine another example, this time for calculating the total of a bill
and adding tax to it. The code will be presented
in four sections to help you focus on what
each procedure does. First, the bill total
function accepts a built as a parameter and
loops through it to calculate the total bill
and return its total. The calculate tax function
accepts two parameters, the percentage and
the bill total. Then it returns the total amount of tax to be added to the bill, which is also rounded off
to two decimal places. The food bill, which
contains its items, represents a customer's bill, which is static, but could
also be changed to an input to accept data from the user to
dynamically create a bill. The last few sections, we'll call the two functions
to calculate the bill and tax and then print each out
along with the overall total. Could you identify
the subroutines or functional
sections of the code? Did you note how these
sections reuse one another? Now, let's put the four
subroutines together to examine the four ways in which
the footprint of the code is reduced by
procedures programming. It's best to inspect the
code by starting at the end. Tax total reuses food total. Food total reuses bill
total and food bill. Calculate the tax
reuses bill total. Bill total reuses food bill. In summary, the advantages of the procedural paradigm are, it's easy for beginners
to learn and get started. Procedures can be reused by
other parts of the code. Code is easy to
understand because each procedure is broken
into specific tasks. Procedural programming does
have some disadvantages, including it can be hard
to maintain and extend. In some cases, it doesn't relate well to real-world objects. Data is exposed throughout
the whole program. Procedural programming has both its advantages
and disadvantages. As you learn more
as a new developer, you'll be better able
to decide if it's the best approach to a specific
piece of coding or not.