By now you should be
familiar with the concept that developers use
the form class, to automatically generate HTML for form elements from classes. In this video you will
learn how to create a form using the form
class in Django. You will also learn how to render a form using a template. Finally, you'll explore some of Django's form features
such as validation. Let's begin creating the form. First I need to
create a file called forms.py inside
the app directory. In this scenario I
will create a form on the little lemon
website that allows the employees to log their
entry times of work. In this video I will be
only demonstrating how to build the form using the
forms API and Django. You'll learn how
to process forms and Django later in this course. The process of building
forms in Django is very similar to
creating models. First I use the
import statement to import forms from
the Django module. Next I create a class
called input form, which will hold the form
and pass it forms.Form. This class needs
four attributes. The first two attributes are
first name and last name, which will be
character fields with a max length set to 200. The third attribute is shift which will be a choice field. It will let employees
choose between morning, afternoon and evening
shifts for their work. Inside the choice field I pass the choices as one
constant called shifts. Then at the top of the code
I assign the value of this constant to an iterable
of tuples inside a tuple. I need to add one final
attribute called time log. This attribute will log the entry time for
a given employee. I type forms.TimeField. My code looks good
and that's all I require for creating a form. Let me now switch to the
views.py file and just like I did with models I need to
create a view for this form. I do this with the
import statement to import the form from
the app directory. Now I'm ready to create a view. First I create a view
function called form view. Next I create an
instance of a form and pass it to a
variable called form. Then I create another
variable called context which is assigned to a dictionary
with form as the key, and the instance object of
input form as its value. Finally I pass this variable inside of the render
function which will display the output of an
HTML page called home.html. But for this to
work I must build a webpage by
creating a template. I first create a templates
folder inside the app. Next I create a home.html file and paste the HTML
code inside of it. It's important to
remember to use the form method of post as I'm sending the data from the form and creating an object from it. I've also included a submit
button represented by an input field with type
and value set to submit. To finish this form
code I have to add something called a CSRF token, which is simply a way of telling Django that the
form data is safe. Finally I pass the form
that I've created. My code looks good let
me save all my files, and before I continue I ensure
I update the URLs.py file, both inside the app and
the project folder. I also need to update the settings.py file with a
reference for the app. I'm now ready to run the server. In the terminal I
type the command python manage.py runserver. I navigate to localhost URL and enter the
path for the form. Success. The form displays on the webpage with the form
elements first name, last name, shift, and time log. You may notice
that the form does not have any styling applied. Well I could use some CSS, I'm not going to just yet. Instead I want to demonstrate
a trick to structure the form elements
using paragraph tags. Back in the file home.html
I can modify how the form is rendered by
amending the form to form.as_p. This will tell Django to render the form elements
as paragraph tags. Save this file again and
refresh the web page. Notice that the form elements all appear one after another. When I press the submit button, notice that Django also provides basic form validation where all the elements are required. If I want to change
this I can pass a parameter inside
the forms file. For each attribute I can
type required equals false. I saved the file again
and refresh the web page. I press submit and notice that the field first name is
not required at this time. Similarly I can pass
other parameters. For example inside the
time log I can type help text equals and then the
text enter the exact time. Once again I save and
refresh and notice the text is displayed
beside the time log field. Finally I can open my HTML file to add some inline
styling to the form. Inside the form declaration
I add a background color. I save the file one more
time and refresh it. Notice that the form displays
with the background color. Working with forms
can be complex, so developers can
use Djangos formed functionality to simplify and automate vast portions
of this work. By creating forms this way, developers are guaranteed to add Django's layer of security. It was not possible
to demonstrate how to process and save the
form in this video, but I hope you're thinking
that maybe Django offers similar functionality
to process and save forms as it does
with creating them. If you're thinking
that you're correct, and you will learn
how to do this soon. In this video you
learned how to create a form using the form
class in Django. You also learned how to render
a form using a template. Finally you explored some of Django's form features
such as validation.