Often web applications collect data
from the user through a HTML form and it's sent to the server for processing. You create a HTML form using
various form elements such as input elements Radio buttons,
Drop-down lists, and Checkboxes. In this video, you will learn how to use form fields
to store correct data types in Django. Suppose the manager of Little Lemon
has asked you to build a customer form containing a customer's name and age. First, you build a HTML form that
contains three input elements, one for the name, one for age,
and one for the submit button. Previously, you learned
that Django creates and processes forms using the Form class. This class defines all the expected
attributes that will construct and process the form. Once you lay out the structure of the
form, Form fields are the building blocks that help build the form while fields
are an integral part of models. They are especially important
while using forms as they help define the visual element of the form. The custom logic behind the fields
is defined in the Fields class used inside the Form class in Django. When defining attributes,
you can choose from various field types. Let's explore some of these briefly now. First is CharField which
accepts any string input and is equivalent to the text
input element in HTML. Next is EmailField which accepts
input that follows email format. It's equivalent to the email
input element in HTML. IntegerField accepts only integers and is equivalent to the number
type input element in HTML. MultipleChoiceField offers
the choice of multiple options. It's equivalent to the select and
option elements in HTML. Finally, FileField allows you
to choose a file for upload and is equivalent to the file
type input element in HTML. Additionally, these form fields have
different arguments that can be passed to them while specific arguments that can
be passed vary according to the field and use. There are a few core arguments that are
accepted in common among all the fields. These are required, label,
initial, and help-text. Let's explore each of them
now in a little more detail. Required, each field assumes
the value is required by default. You can change this by setting
required equal to false. Label, the argument helps
specify a label for the field. Initial, initial values can be set for
specific fields. Help-text, specify descriptive text for
the field. It's important to remember that every form
that you build will have different data requirements. For example, a customer feedback form or
a survey-style form for a customer's favorite menu items. Knowing what field type to use is
essential to building effective forms. Let's open VS code now and explore
the different fields that can be used to create a form and
the customization options available. The Django project is set up with
a file called forms dot py created. And notice that the file
imports the forms package. Now let's begin by creating a form and exploring the different form
fields available with it. First, you create a demo form
that will contain a CharField. Let's explore this form in the browser and notice that Django creates
the label name in the form. This name comes from the value of
the attribute that is defined. If you change this,
it will update on the form. You can edit the form further
by passing a parameter such as a widget with the value
forms dot Textarea. This Textarea will override
the default widget for it, which is the equivalent of rendering
the input field present in HTML code. If you refresh the page again
notice the form is updated. Okay, so the code works but suppose you
want a smaller Textarea to display. You can pass a parameter inside the
Textarea such as attributes with a certain number of rows, apply this update,
save the file, and refresh the browser. Notice that the Textarea is
smaller with space for five rows. Next let's explore the Email Form Field,
replace this code with email equal to forms dot Email Field,
and save the file. Refresh the page and
notice the form updates with an input for the email form field. It's also important to note that Django
Form Fields have basic validation applied by default. For example, suppose I enter an invalid
email address and try to submit the form, notice that an error is displayed stating
that you must enter a valid email address. If you add a valid email address and
press the submit button again, notice that the form does
not display an error. To help the user know what
to add in each form field, you can use the label parameter. For example, add a label
parameter with the text to enter an email address, save the code,
and refresh the page. Notice that the label now
displays in the form and replaces the default attribute value. Let's now explore another example. Using the Date Field, inside the code you
can use a widget called number input. That requires additional
input from forms dot widget. Suppose you want the customer to
enter a date in the date field for a reservation date at Little Lemon. If you save the file and refresh the page,
notice that the reservation date displays. You can click on it to open a calendar and
select a specific date. One last example that you can
explore is the ChoiceField. This example uses a constant to be passed
as a parameter inside the ChoiceField. The values saved in the constant allow
customers to select their favorite dish at Little Lemon. Once again save the file and
refresh the page in the browser. Notice that there is a drop-down menu for
the choices. However, suppose you want to display
all three choices simultaneously. You can achieve this by using another
widget option with the value of RadioSelect. Save and refresh and
notice that the choices are now visible as Radio buttons that the user can select. It's important to know that these examples
showcase just some of the available form fields and
parameters you can use in Django. Exploring the Django documentation for all available options to help
you create forms is a good idea. And you can do this from the link in
the additional reading at the end of this lesson. In this video, you learned how to use Form Fields to
store correct data types in Django.