So far in the course, you have
learned how to create models as well as forms using class
implementations by Django. But what if you want to
use them together to save entries entered in a form
inside a database? Django provides a very efficient way
to do that using ModelForm by providing a means to save received data as
a response directly to the database. In this video,
you will learn how to use ModelForm. The process of creating such a ModelForm
is similar to that of creating a model and form. Just like in the case of model and
form, Django provides another helper class called ModelForm that helps
in an easier implementation. Let's take an example. Say you want to create a reservation
form for the little lemon restaurant. In the example, you first import the model
you want to bind with your form. Then you add implementation details for
it using a meta class. And finally,
you create an instance of that form. Note, that instead of having
separate classes for form and model, you have just one that inherits
the ModelForm and implements it. Since this is an implementation
that involves sending form data back as a response,
you also need to add some implementation details about the post
method inside the view. Let's now examine how
you can implement this. Previously, you learned
that you can use the forms API to generate a static
form using Django. Just as a reminder,
notice the code in the forms.py file and how it is used to render
a form in the browser. Building on the project
that's already in place, let's modify the form to
use ModelForm this time. So, first to simplify,
remove the shifts attributes. And since this is a ModelForm,
copy the contents and paste it inside the models.py file. Next, you need to reconfigure
all the details so that it matches the configuration code for
a model. Notice how the class name changed
from log form to logger which is the name of the model. Next, let's go to forms.py again,
delete the existing content and then create the ModelForm based
on the model that is in place. So first, import the model
using from.models import logger which is the name of my model. Then, type class LogForm which
is the name for the ModelForm. And this time, pass ModelForm inside it. Next, add class meta followed
by the name of the model, logger and
another attribute called fields. And instead of assigning individual
fields, let's just enter the value of all which will import all the fields
inside that particular model. Let's save this file. Next, you must make sure
that you register the model. For this, go to admin.py and
update the details. Next, switch to the views.py file. Once inside the view, notice that there is already some basic
configuration that helps render the form. If you recall, the form object,
which this time is the ModelForm is passed inside a context dictionary which is
then passed inside the render function. Now, you must add some code that
will help accept the form data and send it to the model database. So, let's add a conditional statement
such as if request.method equal to post, next, add form equal to log form and
then pass a request.post inside it. What this code does is update
the form object with the contents of post inside the request object. Next, check out the form is valid. And if so,
save the form using that save method. Let's save this file. You already have everything you
need in terms of the form template. After you run the migrations,
run the server. Go to the browser again and refresh it. Next, enter the name Kyle McGregor. And the time 11 minutes past 11. And once you press the Submit button, notice that the post method
is logged on the console. In the left panel,
you can go to the database, right click on it and
click on Open Database. Inside SQLITE Explorer, once you expand
it, click on my app underscore logger. This is the name of the table
created from the model, click on it and notice that the entry
has been updated inside the database. You can add as many entries as you like. And every time the entry will
be added inside the database. This is an example of how the ModelForm
can be used to create a form and save the form data to
a corresponding database table. In this video,
you learned how to create a ModelForm. Well done.