In the previous video, you learned how to
use serializers in DRF to convert query set with single or
multiple records from the database to JSON. There is an easier
way to do this, using a special kind of serializer called
model serializer. This time, you're going to learn how to write less code and easily convert Django model
instances to JSON object. Let's open the main way to
model from the models.py file. There are three fields called title, price, and inventory. I open serial ledgers.py
in my Django app. This is where I wrote the serial ledger in
the previous video, I will comment out
everything and write a new menu items
serilizer class. Now, open the menu
items endpoint. Everything is working
without any issues. You don't need to change any
code in the views.py file. Let's visit the
single item endpoint. Everything is working
perfectly here too. Back to the ModelSerializer. If you want to change
the name of a field, for example, inventory to stock, you can easily do that here. I'm going to remove
the inventory field from the fields array and add a new line above the Meta class so that the
final code looks like this. Did you notice how I
created a new field in this serializer but linked it to an existing field with
the source argument. Remember to include this new
field in the metal glass. Otherwise, you
will see an error. You can also use a
calculated field in the serial ledgers
and model serializers. Let's introduce a new field
called price after texts, which will be an extra 10
percent of the product price. Add a new method in the menu items serializer
class like this. Then input the decimal
from the decimal module. Now, let's link this method as a new field in
the serializer. Add the following line above the Meta class and include
it in the fields array. This is the final code, and when you revisit
the endpoints, everything is working
fine without the changes. In this video, you'll learn how to use model serializers in the Django rest
framework to convert model instances quickly
and easily to JSON. You have also learned
how to change the name of a field in output of an API, and how to use calculator
fields in a serializer. In the next video, I'll demonstrate how to
serialize relationships.