In almost every Django project, you'll have related data in your database spread out
across multiple tables. To establish these
relationships in a project, you write models and
connect them one by one. You're already familiar
with DRF serializers and have worked with models
serializers but in this video, I'll show you how
to use a new type of serializer called
a relationship serializer to convert
related modals to Json and display
them correctly. Let's have a look at
the models dot py file, where you created a
new category model and connected to the
menu item model. While creating the foreign key, you have to ensure that
the category cannot be deleted before all the related
menu items are deleted first and this is done using on underscore delete equals
models dot protect. Make sure you created
the migrations in your terminal and migrated them before proceeding further. Now, you can visit the
menu items endpoint. You'll notice that the category is not present in the APA result because we did not add
this category field to the menu item serial
ledgers field list. Let's do that and revisit
the menu items endpoint. Now, we can see the category ID but what if you want to
do something special, like display the category name using the relationships
serializer in DRF. Let's go back to the
serializers dot py file and import this new
category model at the top. All the category names
should be displayed, so you're going to
add this line in the menu items serializer
above the Metaclass. When you visit the
menu items endpoint, it is clear that nothing
has changed. Why is that? Because you did not specify in the category model how to convert the category
model to a string. Let's go back to the
models dot py file and add this method to
the string conversion. In this case, when you are converting a connected
model to string, you also need to change
your view files to load the related model
in a single SQL code. This will make your API more
efficient by not running a separate SQL query for every item to load to
the relative data. Visit the menu
items endpoint and there's the category
and the APA result. Now let's use a separate
serializer for the category. To make it even more detailed, open the surreal
serializer dot py file, add a new category serializer above the menu item serializer, and add this new
category serializer in the menu items
serializer as a category, remove the previous
category field above the Metaclass and
add this line there. Now, revisit the
menu items endpoint, and note how the
category field is displayed with every menu item. This is how you create
relationships serializers in DRF. In this video, you
will learn how to create relationships
serializers in the Django rest framework and properly display
all the related data. You also learn how to tweak the views file to load the
related data more efficiently.