By now you know plenty about how to
optimize APIs and retrieve send and convert data. But in the end,
you need a way to display this data so that users can make sense of it. While JSON is the most popular
data format for APIs these days, it's not the only format
client applications use. Some of these clients prefer XML and
some of them may want the output in YAML. So, the more support you add for your
API output, the more usable it becomes. Renderers are responsible for
displaying the output of your APIs. Some of these renderers
display the JSON content, some XML and
some are responsible for the HTML. Besides the built-in renderers, there are many third-party
renderers available to use. Commonly used renderers are the built-in
JSON renderers that displays JSON data, the browsable API renderer which
is another built-in renderer and shows the browsable API view, the XML renderer is a third-party
renderer and displays XML data. Another third-party renderer is the YAML
renderer and it displays YAML data. Lastly, there is the JSONP renderer, also a commonly used third-party
renderer that displays JASONP data. In this video, you will learn how to take advantage
of some of these renderers in DRF. Renderers are everywhere in DRF and
you've been using them all along. It's just been happening
behind the scenes. One of the most popular views, the browsable API view is rendered
using the browsable API renderer. In DRF,
you can change the renderers any time. You can use a particular one or
multiple renderers so that one from this list will respond to the API depending
on the type of content requested. So, where can you set the type of
content you want from the API? You do this by setting a header in
the HTTP request which is called Accept. Type accept:application/Json. By default, DRF uses two renderers,
one is the JSON renderer for JSON output and the other one is
called the browsable API renderer. Say you want to turn off
the browsable API renderer and only want to include
the JSON content every time. To do this, open the settings.PIEfile and
add a new section called REST_FRAMEWORK if it's
not already present there. DRF uses this setting to
initialize the renderers. Add the following lines of code. Now comment out the browser API renderer. Next, visit the menu
items endpoint by adding, /api/menu items to the end
of the local host URL. The output now comes in plain JSON
because the browsable API interface does not work this time. Let's bring it back by removing
that comment in the settings file. The browsable API view works only when
the Accept header is set to text/html. And this is the header that
browser sent by default. But if this header is not set,
DRF returns only the JSON output. You can test it further in Insomnia. Open Insomnia and
create a new HTTP request to the endpoint/api/menu items,
click the send button. Only the JSON output displays, right? It happened because you did not
exclusively send an Accept header. So, DRF used the default renderer,
the JSON renderer, and sent JSON data in the response. Now, let's fix this. From the header tab,
add a new header called Accept and set its value to text/html,
and send the request again. Is the response different this time? Yes. Insomnia is now using the browsable
API interface instead of JSON. So far, you know how to use the JSON and
browsable API renderer. Next, let's add support for
a new content type XML. You will be using a package
called Django REST framework XML. Open the terminal and make sure you are in the virtual environment by
using the Pipenv shell command. Install this package using pipenv
install djangorestframework-xml. Now, let's go back to
the settings.PIEfile and add a line of code in
the default renderer classes in the rest framework section that is
similar to the ones you added earlier. Type rest framework
xml.renderers.XML Renderer. Move back to Insomnia,
set the Accept header to application/xml, and send the request again
to the menu items endpoint. The output now comes in
XML instead of JSON. In contrast, you will receive
the JSON output if you send the Accept header with the value,
application/json. Well done. Now you understand how to use
different types of renderers in DRF. In this video, you learned that the renderers in DRF play
a crucial role in displaying API output. You should now be able to turn off the
browsable API renderer whenever you want. And display JASON and XML content
using the appropriate renderer.