Data conversion is an essential
process in API development and the serializers in DRF make it easy. By now you should know
about serializers but this video will explain how you
can use them in your API projects. Let's recap the function of serializers. You can pull data from the database
using Django models and then represent this data to your clients. You can also convert user supplied data
into models to store them safely in a database. And before storing this data
you can use serializers to ensure the integrity of the data and
avoid data corruption. Serializers are the most
popular feature in DRF. They are essential for
converting objects and Django models into a more
readable format like JSON or XML. They can also parse the JSON data and
map them onto an existing model. This is the opposite of serialization and
it is called deserialization. Serializers can also validate data
during this deserialization process, ensuring that your data is clean and
consistent. Now for a practical
demonstration of serializers and how to use them effectively
in your project. Creating a new file called serializers.pi will help to put all of the serializers
specific code in one place. This will be located in
the Django app directory. Let's quickly go to the menu item
model in the models.pi file. This model has three fields title,
price and inventory. Before adding a serializer, let's create a method to fetch
all menu items in your views.pi, name it menu underscore items and
write the following code in it. If you visit the menu items endpoint,
all menu items are displayed as JSON data. The DRF will automatically take care
of converting a query set object and display every field of the menu items. If there is a sensitive field you
don't want to expose to the public, you cannot hide it without
the help of a serializer. Now open the serializers.pi file
in your Django application and write the following code. The serializer fields are similar
to the fields in a model. You can add all the fields you want
to display in the API result or hide them from here. Let's use this serializer in the views
file, add the following line. Note you are passing an argument
called many equals true. This argument is essential when you
are converting a list to JSON data. Now browse the same menu items and
note how the result has changed. The title and inventory fields
are not in the result anymore. To bring them in, you can add price and
inventory fields to your serializer. Let's refresh this endpoint in the browser
to test how the result has changed. Now I'm going to use this serializer for
a single record, create a new method and
add the following code to it. Did you notice that I'm not using the many
equals True argument this time that's because it's not required
to convert a single object. You can map this single item
method in your applications, URLs.pi fields like this. Now browse the menu items endpoint and
note the output. Make sure that you have records with this
idea in your database before visiting this endpoint. What happens when you visit this
endpoint with a non existing ID? You will get server errors,
but you can convert it to a friendly error message using
the get object or 404 method. Now let's change the single item
method a little bit and you are done. If you visit this end point
with a non existing ID, you will receive a JSON error
message saying not found. In this video you have learned how to use
the serializers in Django Rest Framework to quickly convert multiple or
single database records to JSON data. And save a lot of time by not
doing everything manually. In a coming video, you will learn how to
make these serializers even easier by converting them to model serializers.