In no time at all, you have finished
the second week of this course. Great job. Now it's time to review what you learned
about using the Django rest framework to create APIs, serialize your database
models, and convert, validate, and render data. In the first lesson you were introduced
to the Django Rest framework or DRF. As you now know, DRF is a toolkit built
on top of the Django web framework and you can create APIs with
it much more efficiently. This is because it can retrieve
data from the database, process it, and then represented to your clients
as JSON, XML, or other formats of data. Just some of the DRF benefits, are that you have a built in
API viewer at your disposal. You can use human readable
HTTP status codes, and the built in serialize ear's
help with data conversion. And what's more the serialize can also
perform deserialization, which you can use to convert user supplied data into
models to store them safely in a database. Next, you learned how to install and
configure DRF, so you could observe a working server. And you learned about the benefits
of using pipenv over pip. When you use pip, you have to still manage
all the dependencies and keep track of those packages, and you'd also have to set
up and configure the virtual environment. But pipenv works on top of pip,
and it does several things for you automatically like manage
the virtual environment. After learning about installing and
configuring DRF, you learned more about the API view
decorator and its benefits, like for example how adding API decorators in
DRF can help you to quickly prototype, inspect, and test APIs, because you
can work directly in the browser. You also learned about different
types of routers in DRF, and how they are used to auto configure
the URLs from class based views. This means that you don't need to
create individual URL patterns for each class method. Following this, you learned how to create
function and class based views and link them to roots in DRF. And you learned about the advantages
of class based views like how you don't have to write as much code,
there's less code duplication, and you can extend the classes and
add features at any time. And that's not all,
you can also write specific methods for each type of HTTP request. You also learned how to integrate the
Django debug toolbar in your project to debug your APIS. You explored important sections like the
SQL section which shows the list of SQL queries executed for this end point. This is the place where you often check
for performance tuning and optimization. Next, you created a restaurant
menu API project with DRF, That can create, list, edit,
delete, and select menu items. And at the end of the first lesson, you tested your new skills by converting
your book list API project to DRF. In lesson two, you learned about
Django rest framework essentials. Here you learned even more about
serializers, and explored a practical demonstration of serializers, and
how to use them in your project. After this, you learned about
relationships serializers and how you can use them to display related
data of connected models in the output of your API. Next, you learned more about
deserialization techniques, and how it helps you to validate
the HTTP request body, and map it to an existing model where
after you can save it to the database. Following this, you learned about
the built in render object in DRF, and how to use it to display
different types of content. Renderers are responsible for
displaying the output of your APIs. Some of these renderers displayed
JSON content, some XML, and some are responsible for the HTML. Besides the built in renderers, there are many third-party
renderers available to use. Finally, you completed an ungraded lab
centered on a restaurant menu API, in which you used serialization,
validation, and deserialization to display API
data in JSON and XML format, and you created HTML forms to add and
modify menu items. Overall, after completing this week,
you should be able to install and setup Django rest framework,
use function and class based views to create
API endpoints efficiently. Create a basic API using DRF
serialized database models using model serializers, convert and
validate data using serialization, map user input to data based
models using deserialization and use throttling and
cashing to optimize and protect your API. You should be proud of all
the hard work you've done, and now you're ready to
tackle the module quiz. Good luck.