In this video,
you will learn about binary numbers, what they are and how computers use
them to represent human language. You will learn how positional encoding
can turn a limited set of numbers into an infinity size representation of values. Lastly, you will learn how computing
the power of a number can be applied to determine how many states this
simple representation can hold. Traditionally, you count using ten
different digits, zero to nine, this stems from the early
development of maths. It was a natural progression resulting
from humans having ten fingers and ten toes, counting with the use of ten
digits is referred to as base ten. Base ten means you have ten different
numbers to use before you have to add another digit and reuse numbers. Each time you've exhaust the range,
you reset the number on the left and add a zero to the right, this new digit has to be ten times
greater than the digit to its right. The number on the right is the reset and
the count begins again, the use of the position of the number
to denote a progressive increase in value is called positional notation. When you consider it, It is an early
implementation of an algorithm to allow for the recording of
an infinite number of values, simple in implementation but
very powerful in effect. Binary works using the same
positional notation approach, it is another common counting
approach that employs base two. This means that all of the values
are represented with either a one or a zero,
computers store information as bytes, each byte is made up of eight bits
that can either be one or zero. As you have now learned, in decimal,
the count would come to nine and you would add another digit and reset,
in binary the same thing happens, but in this case only two digits are used. To progress the count,
you move the number left, move the one to the left until
all configurations of ones and zeros have been used, at which point
you add another zero to the end. At this stage, all the numbers are reset to zero apart
from a single one at the beginning. Let's explore it step by step,
start to count with a zero then add one, to get to three,
start back at zero again but add a one on the left,
as soon as all the ones are full, start back at zero again and
add one to the number on the left. But that number is already at one,
so it also goes back to zero and one is added to the next
position on the left. Binary has many uses in computing,
it is a very convenient way of translating electricity
into computer code, if a signal is present, a one is
displayed otherwise, zero is used. The binary counting system allows
these base two signals to amount to a significant amount of information,
transportation and storage, this is the same way
as Boolean numbers are stored. A Boolean value is either one for true,
and zero for false, some powerful applications can be built using this
simple information representation. The ASCII, American standard code for
information interchange, is a map of binary to character encoding
or a mapping from binary to text. There is a binary number reserved for
each digit and character as well as for a number of
special characters, like a question mark, brackets, full stop and
even the space bar. It was already mentioned that
a byte is made up of eight bits, each bit can take the value of zero or
one. So that raises the question, how many different values can
be represented in each byte, here we would use exponentiation or
counting the power of a number. An example would be two
to the power of three, that is two multiplied by two
multiplied by two, which equals eight. Now consider that you have a lock with
four different digits, each digit can be a zero or a one, how many potential
pass numbers can you have for the lock? The answer is two to the power of four or
two times two times two times two equals 16,
you're working with a binary lock therefore,
each digit can only be either zero or one. So you can take four digits and
multiply them by two every time and the total is 16. Each time you add a potential digit,
you increase the possible permutations, so the same lock with five digits
would have two to the power of five or 32 different combinations. Now, coming back to our original question, how many different representations
can there be in a bite? It was already mentioned that
a bite is made up of eight bits, which can be either a zero or
a one, eight bits would have two to the power of eight or
256 different combinations. In this video, you learned about binary
numbers, the language of computers, while at first glance,
it seemed quite limited to on or off, you learned that through
the use of positional encoding, it could be used to represent
a much larger number set. You learned how computers can use
electricity to store and read numbers and how exponentiation or counting the power of a number
relates to counting unique states. And how to use it to count
the number of possible combinations A number lock could have. Binary is the language of computers,
understanding how it is used to store information will give you a greater
understanding when discussing data and the structures that hold it.