In a previous video bytes were introduced
each byte consists of eight bits. A bit is the simplest
form of computing memory. In this video you will learn about
the central processing unit or the CPU and the roles and functions of
the different types of memory. Typically a computer will be made up of a
series of memory blocks which contain both information and instructions on how
this information needs to be processed. Memory capacity then refers to the number
of bytes that a computer can hold. There are different types of
memory that need to be considered namely cache memory,
main memory and secondary memory. Firstly to better understand
the various layers of memory it is important to pause and
consider how a computer works. A computer functions around the central
processing unit or CPU this takes both information and some instructions on
how this information is to be processed. All this information exists as bytes or
a series of ones and zeros that are determined by
a small electrical current. The CPU can work faster than
information can be transferred to it. Often a CPU will be working on a number
of different tasks near simultaneously. The switching between tasks can allow
information to be transferred into the cache for processing and the results
to be stored in the appropriate location. The proximity of a memory
cell to the CPU can reduce the time it takes
to load the information. Therefore quicker and more expensive
memory is always found near the CPU. So an important concept to consider when
discussing memory is the transfer rate. This relates to the speed at
which a computer can transfer memory into the cache for processing. Now that you better understand
the processing part let's explore the different types of
memory and start with cache memory. Cache memory is the most expensive form of
memory and lives close to your CPU chip. When the CPU receives an instruction
to process some information, it first checks the cache to
see if the information is here. If the information is available in
the cache, it is processed, if it fails to find the required information here,
the information is not processed. The CPU then queries the larger, slower main memory then loads this
information into the cache for processing. Storing recently accessed information in
the cache can improve the effectiveness of your system by reducing the search and
transfer time of regularly used data. Much like a metro in a large metropolis cache memory is organized
in zones of importance. The most readily required information
is in zone 1, each subsequent zone is of lesser importance and
is numbered zone 2, 3, 4 and so on. Next you will learn about main memory,
a computer's main memory consists of read access memory,
RAM and read only memory, ROM. Main memory holds only the information
that a computer is currently working on. It can be volatile or non-volatile,
volatile memory stores information actively so
if the computer loses power, it is lost. Non-volatile memory retains its
information when the power is cut. ROM as the name suggests, is read only, meaning the information
cannot be overwritten. This memory is programmed once at
the factory and cannot be altered. Typically one will find instructions and
data that are critical for a computer's function here. ROM is busiest when
the computer starts and information on the required
application is loaded. RAM is programmable, it can retain
new information and instructions. RAM holds the current data and
instructions that are in current use. The amount of RAM your computer has is
directly correlated to how fast it can go. This is because of the transfer rate. Large amounts of RAM mean that the system
does not need to transfer information constantly. Instead it can hold and run a number
of applications at once using RAM. All the memory needed to operate these
applications needs to be available from your RAM. Having too many programs open will
affect the performance of your system by exhausting your RAM memory. There are a number of algorithms for
reading and storing these memory addresses that fall
outside the perimeters of this course. Now let's explore secondary
memory in more depth. Secondary memory relates to
external memory that can be plugged in externally and used to increase
the storage capacity of your system. Accessing secondary memory is slower and requires transferring all required
information and instructions into RAM. Examples of secondary memory
would include cloud storage, external hard drives and memory sticks. In this video the various components
of memory have been discussed. You have learned how all memory
allocation revolves around the CPU, which oversees the reading, processing and
storing of information on the computer. You have also learned how there
are different types of memory that vary in speed and importance. This informs their proximity
to the CPU with quicker, more expensive memory cells
found near the source. This information should assist you in
understanding how your computer works much better.