When developing applications or
evaluating efficiency, it is always useful to have a metric or a lens through which
you can evaluate fitness for function. Evaluation in Computer Science will often
consider two aspects namely time and space. In this video, you will learn how
to evaluate time efficiency or gauge performance by the time
taken to complete a task. You can refer to this as
the time complexity of a task. An application must return information
within an acceptable time frame. These days, people expect an instantaneous
response when clicking on a website. There might however, be some extra scope
afforded to more complex queries depending on the user's needs and expectations. Big-O notation is a metric for determining an algorithms efficiency but
simply it gives an estimate of how long it takes your code to
run on different sets of inputs. In this video, the amount of time
an algorithm will take is considered. Some of the Big-O notations you will
encounter include the following O of one, O of log log n, O of log n,
O of n and so on. So how do you measure the quickest
possible time that something can be computed? You make use of a constant time algorithm
where it takes O of one time to compute. But simply it means that no matter
what is entered into a system, it will only take one computation. A simple example to illustrate this is
to consider printing the first item in an array. In this instance, no matter how many values exist in
the array the approach has a Big-O of one. Things can get more complex
if you need to do a search. Consider that you have
an array of ten items and you wish to know if a certain
value is in this array, you might apply a loop and check each
item to see if the value exists. In this example,
the complexity is said to be O of n. This is called linear time. The search is going to be equal to
the length of the array passed. The larger the array,
the more time is required to search it. So, if in place of ten items,
you have 100 items, then the search will
take ten times as long. Let's explore an example, each operation
comes at a time price for time complexity. So, O of one means it costs
one single computation and O of n means it costs n computations. For example,
you wouldn't say it takes 45 seconds. You would say the complexity is n. So for every n action, that is plus
one on our final result of complexity. If n = 100, it is 100 checks. The complexity is still O to n. Only n means it is ten times longer. This means that your
application speed depends on the size of the data being processed. Print array at position n is
an example of an O to one operation. That means print the dock
at whatever n is. It doesn't matter how big n is. The cost is always one. Let's continue to O of log n. This search is less
intensive than O to n but worse than O to one,
O of log n is a logarithmic search. So it will increase as
new inputs are added but these inputs only offer
marginal increases. A good example of this in
action is a binary search. Imagine you are playing a guessing game
with the following prompts too high, too low, correct. Given a range of 100 to one, you may decide to approach
the problems systematically. First you guess 50 and it is too high, then you guess 25 and
it is still too high. You then decide to go 12 or 13. It is still too high. What is happening here is that you are
having the search space with each guess. So while the input to this function was
100 using a binary search approach, you should come upon the answer
in under six or seven guesses. This solution would be said to
have a time complexity of O log n. Even if n, the range of numbers entered,
is made ten times bigger. It will not take ten
times as many guesses. Let's move on to O n squared. O n squared is heavy on computation. This is a quadratic complexity,
meaning that the work is doubled for every element in the array. A good way to visualize this is to
consider that you have an array of arrays. The first loop will equal the number
of elements inputted, namely n. The second loop would also look at
the number of input elements n. So, the overall complexity of running this
approach can be said to be n times n, which is n squared. So, how will you visually
represent the problem? This graph displays the algorithm for
time complexity, the x axis relates to the number of inputs
and the y axis relates to the time taken. Notice that as the number
of inputs increases, it has a different impact on the gradient
of the line for all cases but O of one. In this graphical representation
of how n relates to the number of computations taken,
the best time to aim for is O to one. O of log n is still very good. O to n is acceptable and
O n square is not great. Of course it is not always possible
to tell how long an approach is going to take. Let's return to the example of looking for
something in a loop. While you could say that to
search a loop takes O to n time, this might not always be the case. Consider that the item being searched for
is the first in array, then the return will be in O one time. Pretty good. Equally, the element might be missing. So every item must be searched O n time. The middle case would be that
it is found around the middle of the loop O of n over two. When evaluating an approach,
there are three definitions used, best case, worst case and average case. To conclude in this video, the notion of time in relation
to complexity was introduced, you have been given something to consider
when implementing a solution to a problem. A good question to ask
yourself before you start, is how many computations
does my solution employ? And is there a better way? Now that you use a metric to evaluate
your solution to a given problem, you can start thinking of its efficiency
in relation to time complexity. This is not the only way to consider
a solution and in the next video, the focus will be placed
on space complexity.