In this course, you learned about
the principles of the Django framework. Let's take a few moments to recap
the key topics that you learned about. In the opening lesson, you covered
an introduction to the Django framework. During this introduction, you learned how developers use
the dry principles to organize code. You explored the use of the MVT
framework to ensure reusability of code. Then you learned how to create an app
inside an existing Django project using the correct structure. Next, you learn to use some of the basic
commands with Django admin and manage.py. And finally, differentiate between
an app and the project structure. You then moved on to explore
the view part of the MVT framework. In this topic,
you learned how to create views and view logic that can process
basic HTTP requests. Then you learned about URL configuration
and how to map URLs to views. You also examined the use of
the request and response objects for common operations. After that, you learned how to use regular expressions
to create different URL patterns. Then, you learned how to
differentiate parameters and how they associate with HTTP methods
such as get, put, post and delete. Finally, you explored how to handle errors
at the HTTP view logic and view levels. You then progressed to learn about
the model part of the MVT framework. In this topic,
you learned how to create models. Then you learned about
the concept of migrations, and how to apply them using
a best practice approach. You also examined how to use the QuerySet
API To interact with the database. After that,
you learned how to create a form and use the form API to bind data to objects. Then you learned how to use
the Django admin panel to add and control the permissions of users and
groups. Finally, you explored how to set up
a MySQL database for your Django app. Next, you moved on to explore
the template part of the MVT framework. Here, you learned how to
work with templates and use templating to generate HTML. You also learned how to
create templates and use the Django template
language to create markup. Finally, you expanded on this
knowledge to create rich templates using template inheritance. Are you confident that you have
mastered these skills from this course? If the answer is yes, you are now ready
to put in practice what you learned. For the graded courses assessment, you are required to create the menu
pages for the Little Lemon website. It's time to demonstrate your skills, and
showcase what you learned in the course. Good luck.