Congratulations on completing
the graded assessment, one of your final steps to test your skills and understanding
of the Django framework. Let's walk through the solution. The first part is to
create the menu page, open the file models.py, and create a model
classes for the menu. Make sure to define a Dunder method inside
the model class. The name will be visible
in Django admin. The next step is to open the admin.py file and
register both models. It's important to
ensure that both models are imported from
the models.py file. Now that the models
are in place, run the commands make
and perform migrations. Once the migrations
are completed, open the project level
and app level URLs.py files to ensure the URL path
configurations are in place. The next step is to
add content inside the models you created using
the Django admin panel. First, create a
superuser by running the command in the command prompt with the
following details. Username, bestroadmin, email; admin@littlelemon.com,
and password, lemon@786! Once the super user is created, add the command to run
the development server, open the browser with the
browser preview button and paste the local host URL
generated in the terminal. Add the admin path to the URL to access the
admin login page, enter the credentials for
the super user you created, and login to the
Django admin panel. Inside the Django admin panel, locate the menu model
under restaurant, which is the app's name. Next, open the menu, click on the Add Menu button. A new page will display and
enter the details provided inside the zip file containing the text
for the menu items. Staying inside the
Django admin panel, click the menu under restaurant. Notice that a page displays
the list of menu items. Once the menu items
have been added, open the views.py file. Notice that the code for
the view functions for home about and booking
are already in place. Now, create a view
function for the menu page called menu and pass the
request object as an argument. Inside the function body, create a variable
called menu data and assign it the
value of objects.all, which is called over
the menu model class. Create a variable called
main data and assign a dictionary that contains the
following key value pairs. They key of menu as a string and the value of the menu_data
as the variable. The final part of
the view function is to return the render
function from the view, making sure to pass the
following arguments to it. The request object, the template
name menu.HTML passed as a string and the
dictionary object with a string value
menu as the key, and a variable main
data as its value. Open the app level URLs.py, and add the path function
for the menu view. That should be all the
code required to complete the model and view function
for the menu items. The next step is to add
the code for the template, expand the app level
directory templates, and create a file called menu.html and add the
starter code to it. After you insert
the starter code, replace the comments with the appropriate Django
template language code. First create a for loop that will iterate
over the menu object. Use a temporary variable
called item as an iterator. Remember that menu is the key
of the dictionary object, you passed to the template from inside the
menu view function. You must use the dot operators inside the template
while accessing any objects and variables
from the object passed to the template
from the view function. Between the enclosing
paragraph tags, print the menu name
from the item variable. Next, between the
enclosing HTML span tags, print the price from
the item variable, to add the currency symbol and the price formatting prefix the opening curly bracket
with the dollar symbol, and suffix the closing
curly brackets of the DTL variable with.00. Finally, insert the template
tag to end the for-loop. The first part of the
project is complete. Let's run the development
server to test it. Open the terminal and add the
command to run the server, copy the URL generated, and click the browser
preview button, then paste the URL into the browser address
bar and press Enter. Notice that the homepage of the little lemon
website loads. Now it's time to move
to the second part of the project and create
the menu item page.