The first step is to open the model's dot py
file and update the menu model with the
description attribute. Next, in the terminal
run the commands to perform migrations to implement the changes to the models. Once this is complete, log in to Django admin using the superuser
credential created earlier and update
the menu items with the description
provided in the zip file. Inside the Django
admin panel click the menu model from the restaurant app to display
the list of menu items. Select a specific
item from the list to edit and update the description with the details provided
in the zip file. Once all the
descriptions are added, open the views.py file and create a view function
called display menu item. The function must
contain two arguments, request and the primary key
set to the value of none. Inside the function body. Add the code to define
the view logic. Use the if condition to check if the primary
key contains a value. If true, create a
variable menu item and assign it the value of the
primary key of the menu model. Using the objects.get method. For the else condition, assign an empty string to
the variable menu item, return the render function from the view and pass the
following arguments. The request object, the
template name menu.html, and a dictionary object with
the string value menu item as the key and a variable
menu item as its value. Once this is complete, open the app level
urls.py file and add the path function inside
the URL patterns list. Before you configure
the new menu item page, open the file menu.html, and update the code to add the link to the menu item page. Select the complete string inside the H ref
attribute and replace it with the DTL code for the dynamic link for
the menu item page. Remember, do not remove the enclosing quotes for the string of the
HTML attribute. The next step is to create a
file called menu_item.html, inside the templates, inside the app
called restaurant. Once created at
the starter code. Replace the code matching
the comment using the appropriate Django
template language syntax. To begin, add the name attribute from the
menu item object. Next, add the
description attribute from the menu item object. Then add the price attribute
from the menu item object. Finally, add the code to display the image that is stored
with the menu item name. While you're adding these steps, insure the changes are inside the enclosing
paragraph tags. Now it's time to save
the menu_item.html file and make sure all the
other file changes are saved. Next, add the command
to run the server, paste the local host
URL to the browser, and add the file path
of menu at the end. Press Enter, and the same page displayed earlier should load. But this time the menu item
name displays as a hyperlink. Click on the link
Greek salad and the menu item page for
Greek salad appears. Notice that this page only contains the information
that is stored in the database row for Greek salad and
displays the name, description, price, and image. Now it's time to move to the third part of the project
and create the footer.