Let's say I want to generate a list using an existing list. The general process
would involve applying some operation to each element of the existing list and using those outputs to
generate the new list. There are many ways you
could do this in Python. In this video, you will
learn how to process a list with a map and
filter functions. My file contains a
list called menu, and it contains a list
of various coffees. I want to filter this list
for a specific coffees. Say, I want to print
all coffees that start with the letter
C. I will do this by creating a function
through which I will pass the list
to compare it to the letter C. Then I will demonstrate how
to get the output. First as a map and
then as a filter. Before I start, let me talk you through the
format of a map function, but keep in mind,
the filter function follows the same format. To create a map, I type map, and then need
to define its arguments. The map function
accepts two arguments. The first argument is
an actual function. In this case, it will be
the function that I will use to match values
based on a condition. The second argument
is the articles that will be passed through
that function. In this case, the coffees
from my menu list. Now, let's create the
function with the condition. I press "Enter" twice to
move the map function down. I typed def and the
name of the function, which is find coffee. I then add a single parameter, coffee between the parentheses and a colon after the
close parenthesis. The coffee perimeter I added will be the coffee from my list. I now need to check if the first character
of the items in the list matches the
letter C. To do this, I'll create an if statement by typing if coffee and pass in zero to set the action on the first letter of
the coffee variable. I then type the
equals sign twice, followed by the
letter C and a colon. I press "Enter" and
on the next line I type return coffee if
this statement is true. To use the map function, I'm going to assign it to a
variable called map coffee. I follow that by entering
an equal sign in the map. Now I can pass in the arguments
for the map function. Remember, the first argument
is the function itself. I enter the function
name find coffee. It is important to note that I am not calling the function. I'm just passing it
in like an argument. I add a comma after find coffee and then
the second argument, the article, in this case menu. Finally, I wanted to
print out the value of map coffee so you can focus on the results
in the terminal. I click on "Run",
and in the terminal I receive a map
object as output. The next step is to iterate
through the map object. I type for X in map
coffee print out the value of X. I
click on "Run" again, and now I get the
output as a map. In the terminal, a list appears with a lot of values
that say none, except cappuccino and
cortado and that is because cappuccino and cortado are the two matches for the
letter C in the function. The great thing about the map
function is that I did not have to create a for loop
to go through the list. The map function takes the function as an
argument and passes the menu list values
into the function one-by-one so that handles
the iteration for me, which makes it quite useful. Next, I'm going to
demonstrate how to get the output with
the filter function. To start, I comment
out the section of the code related to the map function and clear my terminal. The filter function works much the same as
the map function. I declare a variable
called filter coffee and assign the filter
function to it. Again, I add the two arguments, namely the find coffee
function and menu. Then I print out the
variable filter coffee. I click on "Run" and receive
a filter object as output. Now I'll iterate through
the filter object, just like I did with
the map object. I type for X in filter coffee, print out the value of X. I'll clear the terminal
now and click "Run". This time only cappuccino
and cortado are returned. Why is that? Let me explain the difference between a
map and a filter function. A map takes all
objects in the list and allows you to apply
a function to it. A filter also allows you to take in all objects in
the list and runs through a function but it
creates a new list and only returns values where the evaluated function
returns true. That is why there
are no none values displayed in the output
for the filter function. You now know how map and filter
work in Python and should be able to also explain the difference between
the two functions.