A good coder will try
to keep code clean, make it easier to debug, and ensure it's extendable. The great thing is that pure functions can
help you do all that. In this video, you'll
learn what pure functions are and how you can use them
in functional programming. It's important to
understand that there is a clear difference between traditional and pure functions. A pure function is a
function that does not change or have any
effect on a variable, data, list, or sets
beyond its own scope. For example, if you have a
list with the global scope, a pure function cannot
add something to that list or alter
it in any way. Let's explore an
example function and then determine if it is
a pure function or not. This code includes a list
on the global scale and a function called add_to a
single parameter called item. The value of item
is then set to 4. The output is 1, 2, 3, 4. What do you think? Is
this a pure function? No, it's not a pure
function as it changes the global_list by appending the item which is
passed as an argument. In order to change it
to a pure function, you need to think how to extend the function to accept
a list as an argument, add the item to the list without modifying
the original list, and how to return a new list
with the newly added item. The solution is to
create a new list and copy or clone the data
from the original list. Let's revisit the code
to make some changes. This time, you make a copy
of the original list, the new item is added
to the new list, then the new list is
returned to the caller. Now that you have a better idea of what a pure function is, let's review a few benefits
of pure functions. Firstly, with pure functions, you always know what
the outcome will be. Pure functions are
consistent snippets of code that do exactly what
they are intended to do. Thirdly, pure functions
include the ability to cache since you know the return is always
going to be the same. Lastly, pure functions lend themselves well to a
multi-threaded program. In multi-threaded programs, more than one process
can run concurrently, which creates many
threads of data. Pure functions will
help prevent changes on the global scope ensuring
data stays reliable. Now I think it's
time to offer you a step-by-step demonstration in VS Code of how to alter a normal function
to a pure function. Pure functions are especially useful because they
are easier to read, better to debug, and
more consistent. I'll now take you through a simple example to demonstrate how to
create a pure function. I'll start by
creating a function that does not behave
like a pure function, and then I'll tweak it
until it's a pure function. First, I create a
list called my_list, and inside it I
add three numbers, 1, 2, and 3. Then I add a simple function
called add_to_list, which takes a single
variable called item. This function will
return my_list and append the new item that
is being passed through. Below that, I call the
function add_to_list and assign the value of
4 to the variable item. Finally, I add a
print statement of my_list so that I can focus
on the output in the console. I click on the "Run"
button and the numbers 1, 2, 3, and 4 printed out. This means that my_list now contains the inserted number 4 as well because the function appended it to the
existing list. What do you think? Is
this a pure function? No, it's not. Because
the data has been manipulated at the global scope from inside the scope
of the function. Let's try to turn it
into a pure function. The first thing I'm
going to change is how the function
is being called. I want to pass in
a new argument. I type new_list
equals add_to_list. I keep the value of 4, and I'll also print
out the new_list below the first print statements
to compare the outputs. Now let's make some modifications
to the function itself. I add a simple
append to my_list, which is going to take
in the item variable. I type my_list.append
an item in parentheses. Then I want to return
back the list. I type return my_list. Now I click on "Run" and the outputs and the
console indicates that both my_list and new_list include the
values of 1 to 4. It's clear that the function is still not a pure function. Why? Because even though it's
returning a new variable, it still has a reference
to the my_list variable. Let's try something else to
turn it into a pure function. This time, I'll accept
a parameter called lst for the variable item. I type lst comma in front
of item in the parentheses. I also changed the append
statement to lst.append item, and I also change the return
action to return lst. Finally, I change the
core action by passing in my_list comma inside
the parentheses before the value of
4. Let's run that. Once again, both lists
contain the values of 1 to 4. The reason for this is that the function is still
using the list as an argument and it's still being updated from
within the function. Ultimately, in order to
create a pure function, the problem that I
have to solve is how to create a new_list, and then I need to
solve how to get all the values from
the list that's being passed through and then return the new_list back to
the calling action. Let's give it another try. This time I create a
new_list by creating a copy. In the function, I type
the name of the new_list, nl equals lst.copy and
a set of parentheses. Now, instead of putting the
past values into the lst, I'll put it into the copy. I type nl.append, and then I also changed the
return action to return nl. I clear the console
screen so that I can focus on the output
and click on "Run", and finally, I get two
different results. My_list is printed with
the values 1, 2, and 3. But the second print
statement for new_list includes the values of 1 to 4. This function is now a pure function because
it adds value to a list, but it doesn't manipulate the original list
outside the function. In this demonstration,
you've learned what a pure function is and what you need to do to change a function that's
affecting a list on the global scope
to a pure function that does not interfere
with the original list. It's likely that you'll use
pure functions regularly in your programming career because pure functions will
keep your code cleaner, easier to debug, and
easier to extend.