Think about all the communication that
happens between the different parts of an application. For example, making a booking
on a restaurant website for a specific date and time. That communication is
made possible by APIs. You completed a course on APIs, but a
refresher will help you with the upcoming sections of this full-stack course. Let's begin. If you think back to
the beginning of the API course, you'll remember that you started
off with what HTTP and HTTPS are. And that HTTPS is better because data is
encrypted on the client and server side. You also learned how HTTP communication
requires a client requesting information and a server that responds
to the request and serves the content. And you learned about the HTTP methods
used to make API calls to instruct the back-end code how to deal with the
resources as well as the HTTP status codes that give more information to
the client about current HTTP requests. Following this,
you learned about RESTfulness. Naming conventions and
essential tools for API development. Remember, well-designed endpoint also
conveys valuable information about its purpose which is helpful for developers
and the project itself in the long run. Common naming conventions include
use lowercase URI formatting, indicate hierarchical
relationships with a forward slash, use nouns for resource names,
and avoid file name extensions. You learned how to test
your APIs with insomnia. A powerful rest API client that's
free with cross-platform versions and a very user-friendly interface. Next, you cover the principles
of API development. This included REST best practices,
security, authentication, authorization, and access control. You also learned about how to organize
your own projects as well as about XML and JSON response types. And by now you know that
creating an API isn't enough. You also have to know how to debug it. And that's why you learned how to debug
Python scripts from VS code using the built-in debugging tools. You also learned how to integrate the
Django debugging toolbar in your project to debug your APIs. You learned that API mocking is a great
way to imitate a real API endpoint. These mock APIs are used to test and
develop applications because they provide you with a similar response
you get from a real API endpoint. Next up was the Django Rest Framework and
how you can use it to create APIs. Serialize your database models and
convert, validate, and render data. DRF is a Django utility app that
bridges your regular Django app, the Django framework, and
the object-relational mapping or ORM library which communicates
with the database. Just some of the DRF benefits are that you
have a built-in API view at your disposal. You can use human-readable
HTTP status codes and the most popular feature
in DRF serializers. They are essential for
converting objects and Django models into a more
readable format like JSON or XML. And what's more, the serializers can also
perform deserialization which you can use to convert user-supplied data into
models to store them safely in a database. Like parsing JSON data and
mapping it into an existing model. And you learned about different
types of routers and DRF. How to auto-configure the URLs
from class-based views and create function in class-based views. You learned about the advantages of
class-based views like how you don't have to write as much code. That there's less code duplication and
you can extend the classes and add features at any time. And you learned about the built-in
renderer object in DRF, and how to use it to display
different types of content. Next, you were introduced to the concept
of filtering, ordering, searching, and paginating. This included learning that filtering
is used to allow client applications to get access to specific
data via APIs and that it is usually performed
by passing query strings. And you learn how to order API
results in both ascending and descending order as well as how
to perform multiple ordering. Next, you learn how to paginate your
restaurant menu items by specifying how many items you want to display per page. Developers use pagination
to chunk results. Client applications can then
decide the page number and how many records they want per page. Pagination helps the server to perform
better by consuming less resources. You learned about caching too. Another way to optimize overall
performance by serving saved results instead of creating a fresh one
every time it is requested. You learned about data sanitation and
that it is important from a security perspective because unsanitized
data can cause vulnerabilities. You learn that API security is
crucial because they give third-party clients access to your databases. You learned how to build
token-based authentication in DRF by creating a simple registration and login API that use the generated
tokens to authenticate API calls. But remember relying only on
authentication checks will not be sufficient to protect your data. You must also create and check privileges
like if the authenticated user has the authorization to perform this action. Access control is all about
setting roles and privileges for users to make sure only the right
users have access to data. And that's why you learned how to
create different user roles in DRF. You also learned about the Djoser library
and what the benefits are of using this library over DRFs built-in
authentication system. You now know about new authentication
endpoints introduced by the Djoser library for the registration and sign-in process. When it comes to security. Another way you can keep your API
secure is to use a signed URL to limit access to a resource for
a specific period of time. Another important topic that we covered
is how to set up API throttling. Using the two throttling classes in DRF,
you can control how often APIs can be accessed in a certain amount of time by
unauthenticated and authenticated users. And that's it. Conceptually, APIs may only make
up a small segment of full-stack, but it's like a bridge that connects
the different components of an application together and
integrates it into a single unit. And that's why it's important that
your API knowledge is up to date. So if there's anything you
think you should revise, please return to the API course material
before proceeding with this course.