Well done. You've come really far with all the courses
you've completed. But sometimes it can be difficult
to remember everything. In this course, you
will be returning to some key concepts of Django, so let's recap what
you've learned in the Django course
to make sure that you're prepared for the
rest of this course. First, you learned how Django
is used in the real world. For example, the
developers can create a back-end framework with Django that can connect to a
front-end framework, and you learned about
projects and applications, admin and structures, as well
as what are web frameworks. Django encourages
dry principles, or don't repeat yourself. In other words, write it
once but use it many times. You learned about django-admin
and manage.py commands as options for command line utility to perform administration tasks, and you learned how they're used in the creation of
projects and apps. Furthermore, you now know that frameworks are designed
to support you in building web applications
because they provide you with a clean,
ordered structure. Also recall the benefits of
using the Django framework, which include: speed, feature-rich classes,
security, and scalability. You also learned how Django
implements the model, view, and template
or MVT architecture, and that splitting the data, logic, and display into M, V, and T rapidly creates large-scale data-driven
web applications. You then progressed
to learn about the model part of
the MVT framework. You learned about the concept
of migrations and how to apply them using a
best-practice approach. You also explored how to use the QuerySet API to
interact with the database. After that, you
learned how to create a form and use the Form API to bind data to objects and build model forms as well
as HTML forms. Then, you learned how to use the Django Admin
panel to add and control the permissions
of users and groups, and you explored how to set up an external MySQL database
for your Django app. Next, you moved
on to learn about the view part of
the MVT framework. You learned how to
create views and view logic that can process
basic HTTP requests. You now know that
the view handles web requests and
returns web responses, and you learned how to create a view function and
map it to a URL with a process called routing so that you can make the
request-response work. In addition, you
should be able to perform other programming
logic inside of View functions such as processing and retrieving
data from a database, transforming data, and
rendering templates. You also explored the
URL configuration file urls.py and learned
why it exists. You know that the urls.py
file is already present at the project level
and configuration can also be added
at the app level. You learned about the HTTP
request object and should be able to demonstrate how it
can be used to map to URLs, map to common crud operations, and get information by
calling the client. Next, you unpacked URL
name-spacing and views, which is how URLs can be mapped to a name and
its subsequent view. You also practiced URL
parameters and query parameters. Then you learned about
the different operations for using parameters
in a web application. You should be able to demonstrate
how it relates to get, put, post, and
delete operations. You also learned about
regular expressions in URLs. Following this, you explored how to handle errors
such as dealing with HTTP status responses and dealing with error
responses from the server. You also explored how
developers can simplify their views by using
object-oriented techniques, such as the concept of
inheritance to create views from inherited classes by using class-based views that can
be reused across a project. You were introduced to the
Django template language or DTL for short, which consists of constructs
such as variables, tags, filters, and comments. While working with templates, you also explored
variable interpolation. You should now be able to
create dynamic templates in Django and map model
objects to the template. Next, you explored
template inheritance, where you learned how
to split out content into individual components
and reuse the segments. You learned that template
inheritance uses two main tags, the include and the extends tag, which allows you to replace blocks or content from
a parent template. Finally, you learned about
debugging and testing. You learned that
debugging is about removing an application's
errors and bugs, and testing considers
metrics for quality, reliability,
and performance. You now know that Django has a distinct debugger that appears in the form of a
yellow page error, we call it DEBUG
equals True flag. You also know that every
language and framework have many testing options that
work well in Django. A popular method is unit testing which you can use to
isolate a function, class, or method, and only
test that piece of code. Finally, in Django, the unit test module uses a class-based approach
where you add the tests inside a class
that inherits the class called test case from
the Django test package. You really worked hard in the Django course and
covered a lot of ground. If there's anything in the recap that you feel unsure about, please review the
relevant material from the Django course
so that you feel confident and ready for
the activities that come later when you use
your Django coding skills.