In this video,
you will learn about tuples and how that can be used to store
different types of data. They're used as data structures and help
to create solid, well performing code. To declare a tuple,
I declare a simple variable. I'll name it my underscore tuple. And then I do the assignment
operator of equals, then to declare the tuple itself,
I use parentheses. A tuple can accept any mix of data types. And it can range from integers like one,
to strings, to a double,
such as 4.5 to a boolean like true. To access any of the items
within the tuple. I can use methods similar to those used
with the list by referring to an index. So in my underscore tuple, if I want to get access to the string
which I know is going to be on index one. I just print out the value. So I write,
Print My _ Triple Brackets, one. Remember Index always starts with zero. I click on run and I find that
it returns the value of strings. If I want to determine
the type of the tuple, I can use the type function
that python provides. I click on run and I get a class tuple. We could also declare a tuple
without using the parentheses. It has the same effect and
will still be classed as a tuple. However, it's best practice
to use the parentheses. Tuples also provide different
methods of count and index. I can do my underscore tuple dot count and
passing the value of strings. I click on run and
I get back to count of one. What it does is it looks for the number of occurrences of
that value within the tuple. Before I move on, I'll type clear into my
terminal to clear the previous output. So we could start fresh and
see what's going to happen next. The other method is index, which would give me back the index of
where the value lies in the tuple. I'll change the print statement to
look up the index of the double 4.5. When I click on run, I get back two. This means that the double 4.5
is at Index two in the Tuple. I can also do a loop manageable. That is iterate through the values and
print them out. I can write a loop for X in my underscore
tuple and then print out the value of X. I click on run and I get back one,
strings 4.5 and true. So all the values of the tuple itself. The one key difference of a tuple over
a list is that tuple values are what's called immutable. And this just means that
they cannot be changed. So I'll prove this and
demonstrate how this works. Let's say that I want to change the value
with the very first item in the tuple being the value one. I'll use zero to access
it based on the index. And let's say that I want
to change it to be five. If I run this, I'll get back an error. And it gives me the error
saying type error, tuple object does not
support item assignment. That's because anything that is
declared in a tuple is immutable. In this video, you learned about tuples,
including how to declare them and work with their contents.