In this video, you'll
explore args and also kwargs, or keyword args. Using these has the advantage that you could pass
in any amounts of non-keyword variables,
and keyword arguments. To start with a short example, I'll define a sum of function that accepts
two parameters, a and b, and then return
back the addition, a plus b. If I do a print statement, called the function sum
of, with the two values, 4 and 5, I should get back
the value of 9, which I do. That all works fine. But let's say I wanted
to add in another value, 6, for example. If I click on "Run" again,
I get back an error, and it tells me that the
sum of function takes two positional arguments,
but three were given. If I want a way around this, this is where args are useful. To define args, I
use the star symbol, and I call it args
for naming purposes. Instead of passing in
just two arguments, args will allow n
arguments to come through any number of arguments. When dealing with more
than one argument, there may be many
to iterate through. To calculate the total sum, I'll have a variable called
sum, assign it to 0, then I'll create a
simple for loop, and then I'll loop
through the argument parameters that's
been passed in. Then I'm going to
add all the values that come in as part of args, which is assigned
to the x variable using the plus equals, and then finally return
the value of sum. Again, if I run the statement, I get back the value of 15. As I mentioned, you could pass in any number of arguments, and the total sum should
be returned for each. In this case, it's 30 with the number of arguments that
have been passed through. That's a simple intro to args. Now I'll demonstrate kwargs. Let's clear the terminal and
switch to my kwargs file. I'll copy the code from
the args file to start. Let's say, for example, you wanted to calculate a
total bill for a restaurant. A user got a cup of
coffee that was 299. Then they also got a
cake that was 455, and also a juice for 299. The first thing I could do
is change the for loop. Let's change the argument to kwargs by adding another star, and then update the
variable in the for loop. Next, I get the
key in the value, and then I extend the kwargs
with the item's function. Then I can simply
change the sum to add all the items that are
passed through on the value, because adding the
key makes no sense. It's just the string,
and it won't give you the actual value
you intend to get. When I run this, I
get back a value of 10.53 with a bunch
of extra zeros. Now I can change
the decimal place for the final
return statement by using the round function and I limit it to two decimal places. When I click on "Run" again, I get back the total of 10.53. To summarize, with args, you could pass in any amount
of non-keyword variables. With the kwargs, you can pass in any amount
of keyword arguments. That's a simple intro to
both args and kwargs.