What is a dictionary in Python? In many ways, it's
very similar to how an actual dictionary works. In a normal dictionary, to locate a word, you look it up by the
first letter and then use the alphabetical ordering
system to find its location. Likewise, Python dictionaries are optimized to
retrieve values. You may remember how useful Python lists are to access
an array of values. Dictionaries access
values based on keys and not on index position. Therefore, they are faster and more flexible in operation. By the end of this video, you'll be able to explain the purpose and function
of dictionaries in Python and identify the performance
benefits of dictionaries. With a Python dictionary, a key is assigned to
a specific value. This is called the
key-value pair. The benefits of this
method is that it's much faster than using
traditional lists. To find an item in a list, you need to keep
reviewing the list until you locate the item. But in a Python dictionary, you can go straight
to the item you need by using its key. A dictionary is also
mutable in that the values can be
changed or updated. For example, you could declare
the number 1 as the key, and coffee is the item, and then change these to any
other number or drink item. But how does this work? How do you access or
locate the item you need within a Python dictionary
with the use of the keys? To demonstrate this, I'll access the coffee item within
a Python dictionary. First, I declare my dictionary name as
sample dictionary. Then an equals with a series
of key-value pairings or keys and items in a
pair of curly braces. I also make sure to separate
each pairing with a comma. I then type the print function followed by the name
of my dictionary. I need to access coffee item, which has been
given a key of one. I insert the number one
in square brackets. I run the print function and it returns coffee as a result, just as I intended. I can also update
a dictionary by replacing one item with another. I just need to use the key
to reference it while using the assignment operator
equals to assign the value. For example, I can change Item 2 in my dictionary
from tea to mint tea. I just write a new
line of code that starts with the name
of the dictionary, followed by the key I want to
change in square brackets. Then I add an equals operator followed by the name
of the new item. What the coding says
is to take Item 2 in the sample dictionary
and change it to mint tea. When I run this function, it changes the item. I can also delete an item
from the dictionary. To do this, I write
a line of code with the delete function followed by the name of my dictionary. Then I add the key
for the item I want to delete in
square brackets. In this instance, I want
to delete Item 3, juice. When I run this delete function, it will remove the juice
value from my dictionary. Finally, I can also use three different methods to
iterate over the dictionary. I can use the standard
iteration method, the items function or
the values function. Let's explore these
iteration methods and the other dictionary operations
functions in more detail. To create my dictionary, I'll start by declaring a
simple variable called my_d, and then use the
assignment operator and then curly brackets. It can be the same as a set, but by default, that's classed
as an empty dictionary. I can print that out by
using a print statement, using the type function
and then passing in the my_d variable,
clicking on "Run". The class has actually come
back as a type dictionary. Next, I'll add some values
into the dictionary, and I need to do
it in two parts. A dictionary holds what's
called a key and a value. The key can be numeric,
it can be string. But to signify the assignment, I use a colon and then put in
whatever value that I want. In this case, I'll put in a
simple string value of test. To signify this, I can change
or have different keys, strings, integers or ints. I put in a string key of name, and then the value, Jim. I print out my dictionary
using the print function. I now have a basic dictionary
setup with a key of one name and then one being
test name, being Jim. If I want to access a
key in the dictionary, I just have to use
the square brackets and then pass in the key-value. In this case of one I'm
passing the numeric one. In the case of the string value, I just need to pass in the
actual string value itself. Name, click on "Run", and I get back
both test and Jim, which are the values for
each corresponding key. If I want to add a new key into the dictionary or update it, I can simply do my d and
then add a new assignment, two in this case, Test
2 click on "Run". The key is then added with
the current dictionary. Update the key, I have to
call out the values I want. I'm just going to
update the first key, which is number 1, with a value of not a
test instead of test. Click on "Play" and it's
updated on the screen. The other thing to note
about the dictionary is, if I try and put in
a duplicate key, it doesn't allow this. If I put in the Number
1 and then not a test. Click on "Run" and the key will actually be overwritten
with the latest one. Number 1 only appears once in the outputs
and it doesn't allow the two keys to be printed out because it won't allow
duplicate values to be set. If I want to delete a key from the dictionary I'll
use the del operator, now I type my_d and then specify which key
I want to delete. In this case, number 1 is then removed
from the dictionary. With a dictionary, I can
also iterate though. For example, I can
use the for x in my dictionary and then
print out the value of x. Click on "Run", and I get one. This only prints out the keys. In a lot of cases, I may
need access to both. To do that, I use a
method called my items. With that, I can
then gain access to the assignment of both
the key and the value. I do a printout here,
key plus value. I'll use some concatenation to print out both the
key and the value. Click on "Run". I have to be mindful because I'm using an integer with a string. I wrap that with the type
str, click on "Run" again, and I get the value of
the key and the value for each of the items in
the dictionary itself. You should now
understand the purpose and function of dictionaries in Python and their benefits
in terms of performance.