Lists are a sequence of one or more different
or similar datatypes. A list in Python is essentially a dynamic array that
can hold any datatype. Let's move to the console
and I'll demonstrate some practical examples
of Python lists. First, I'll go through a few examples of
declaring lists. I create my list by typing list1= and then the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 within brackets
and separated by commas because you use commas to separate
items in a list. List2 is a list
of strings, A, B, C. I can also have a list
of different datatypes. For example, in my list3, I can have a string, an integer, a Boolean, and a float. The type doesn't
necessarily matter. It's just going to be
stored in the same way. One thing to keep in mind with lists is that they are
based on an index. For example, let's
suppose I wanted to access the number 3
from my list1 example. Since the index always
starts with zero, I'd have to write list1[2]. This gets the third
item in the list, which is number 3. If I do print that, I get the value of 3
being printed out. An important option
with lists is that you can also have nested lists. If I declare another
list, for example, list4, and I put in 1, then I can have a
nested list of 2, 3, and 4 and then get
back to a 5, and 6. That's completely valid as well. Any datatype can be stored
within the list itself, just to keep that in mind. Let's see what
else lists can do. I've got a few different
options to add items to a list. One is to use the
insert function. Just before I do that, I'll just do a print. To print out the entire list, there are a couple of
different ways I can do it. I can use the star sign list1, click on ''Run'', and I get
the entire list printed out. To print it the way
it is displayed in my code I can use the
print statement type in list1 in just
putting a separator equals and then comma
with just single-space. I click on ''Run'' and I get this type of prints returned. Back to adding something
new to the list. The first option that I have is what's called the
insert function. I can do list1.insert. What it looks for is the
index of where to insert to. Here I can use the LEN, or LEN function to get
the length of the list1. Then I put in what the
next value should be. In this case, I put
it in number 6. I do the same print statement
directly underneath that. Then click on ''Run''
and I find that I get six added to the end list. I can also use another
function called append. Instead of having to specify the index or where the
items should be placed, I can just put it in
the append keyword. I type append 6 and
click on ''Run'', and it's added in without
having to specify the index. There is another function
I can use if I wanted to add one or more
items to the list. It's called extend. This will accept a list as well. I can put an extend 6, 7, 8, 9 and then click on ''Run'', and then my list is
extended with 6, 7, 8, and 9. To remove something from a list, there are a few
different options. The first way is to use
pop and then specify the index or location of
which item I want to remove. To demonstrate pop, I'll
say pop for, for index 4. I click on ''Run'' and the last item from
the list is removed. Remember, within the list, the index always starts at zero. Index 4 means the fifth
item being the value 5, and that's what
has been removed. Another option is the
delete or del keyword. I can say del list 1 and then specify the
index to delete. In this case, I put
in the index of 2, click on ''Run'' and
the index 2 is removed, which in this case
is the number 3. 0, 1, 2 is the number three. Lastly, I can iterate
through a list. One of the main reasons I
use lists is that I can iterate through the
values and gain access to large amounts of data. To iterate, I can use
a simple four loop. So, the X in list1, and then I can do a
simple print out. I'll just remove
this one underneath. I'd like to print
out the value of X. I just put in print
value and then X. When I click on ''Run'', it will print all
values of the list. That's a brief
demonstration of what you can accomplish using
list in Python. You just covered how a list in Python works as a dynamic array. You explored lists and
learned how to use inbuilt functions of a list
to access the list items, modify them, add to the list, and remove items from the list.