The concept of scoping
and Python allows for greater control over
elements in your code, which reduces the chances of accidental or unwanted changes. By the end of this video, you'll be able to understand
the basics of scoping in Python and identify the
four types of scope. Before you explore scope
and its intricacies, It's important to know that Python has different
types of scope. You'll examine
each one in detail and I'll demonstrate them
with coding examples. In order of ascending coverage, the fourth scopes are local, enclosing, global, and built-in. Together, they're
referred to as LEGB. Variables within the
built-in and global scope are accessible from
anywhere in the code. For example, if there's a
variable a in the global scope, it can be called encode
at the local level. The purpose of scope is
to protect the variable, so it does not get changed
by other parts of the code. For instance, let's
say you've declared a variable b in the enclosed scope and
variable c locally. While b can be called
in local code, it doesn't work the
other way round. As a rule, global scope is
generally discouraged in applications as this increases the possibility of
mistakes in outputs. Now, I'll explore using the four different types of Python scopes in this
practical demonstration. The first one I want to
use is global scope. I declare a variable called my global and then give
it a value of 10, so the next thing
I do is declare a function and I call it fn1, and inside this function, I will declare another variable, which I'll call local
variables or local_v, and give it a value of five. To show that my global variable is accessible from anywhere, I can do a print statement, say access to global, and then print out the value
of the my_global variable, and if I want to
run that function, I need to specifically call it, so fn1, click on ''Run'' and then
the value of 10 is printed out for the
global variable. But if I try and print
out the local variable inside f and one
outside the function, it will return an error, so I access to local
and then puts out local underscore v. I've
been clever console, click on ''Run'' and I get
an error saying name error, name local underscored
v is not defined. That's because it's only
accessible from within the local scope of
the function fn1. Next, to illustrate
an enclosing scope, I'm going to declare
a second function inside fn1 called fn2. I then declare an
enclosed variable, which I call enclosed fee, and assign it the
value of eight. The local v will be
local to the fn2. I'll now explain how
enclosed scope works. Within fn2, I've got
access to the enclosed_v, which I can demonstrate by doing another print statement and printing out the
enclosed_v variable. I'll just test that
this will works by calling the fn1 function and then making sure that I call our fn2 function inside fn1, I must physically call a
function to make it run, so I clear the
console, click on Run, and then prints out
access to global 10 and access to
enclosure eight. The way scoping works is that the innermost function has access to almost everything
from the outside. You can access the enclosed
variable at this level and then also access the global variable at
the outer level. The same rules still
apply from the outside, so if I try and access the
variable of enclosed_v, or trying to access the
variable of local v, I get the same error that the variable enclosed_v
is not defined. The nested items have
access to both the global and the enclosed,
but from the outside, it can't be accessed from a
nested or an enclosed scope, both the local and enclosed. The last globe is
built-in scope, which you've been using when
writing code in Python. Built-in scope refers to what's called the reserve keywords, such as print and def. Built-in scope covers all
the language of Python, which means you
can access it from the outermost scopes or the innermost scopes in
the function classes. That's a brief demonstration
of scope in Python, including examples of global, local, enclosed and built-in. By completing this video, you've gained a broad
understanding of why scoping is important
in Python programming, and you are now able to identify
the four types of scope.