What are functions? At the most basic level, you can think of
functions as a set of instructions that take an
input and return and outputs. For example, the primary task of the print function
is to print a value. This value is usually printed to the screen and it's passed to the print function
as argument. In the example we have here, the string hello world is the value passed to
the print function. By the end of this video, you'll be able to declare
a function in Python, pass data into a function, and return data from a function. A Python function is
a modular piece of code that can be
re-used repeatedly. You've used some Python functions
already in this course, such as print and input. Both are functions
and each one has a specific task or
action to complete. The input function will
accept parameters too, but will also accept
input from the user. So how do you
declare a function? A function is declared using the def keyword followed by the name and
task to complete. Optional parameters
can also be added after the function name
within a pair of parentheses. Here is an example of creating a function to add two values. Type the def keyword followed by the
function name of sum, then enter x and
y as parameters. Finally, enter return x plus
y as the task to complete. I'll now give a practical
demonstration of functions, how to declare them, how they're used, and
how they can also simplify your code by putting it into a
reusable structure. Let's start with a short
example that explains how to calculate a tax
amount for a customer, based on the total
value of that bill. I'll start by declaring
two variables. I type the first variable called bill and I assign it the number, let's say, 175.00. I know this is going to be a datatype known
as floats because I'm using decimal points as
is the norm for currency. The second variable
is the tax rate, which is the percentage tax rate that should be
applied to the bill, so I put in 15. Then what I want
to do is calculate the amount of tax
for the bill itself. What I do is add this into another variable
called total tax. I then do the calculation, which is the bill
multiplied by the tax rate and then divided by 100
to get a dollar amount. To output the value, I print the total tax and pass the total tax variable
and then run the program. Total tax is 26.25, which is 15 percent of 175. In the real-world, the bill
value will be different for each customer and the tax
rates may also change. Updating each variable
every time is inefficient. To overcome this problem, I'll create a reusable function. To start creating a function, I use a define command
or def for short. Then I'll give it a name that relates to the task
it's carrying out. In this case, it's going
to be calculate tax. With functions, you
can pass in arguments. The purpose of that is
to make it more dynamic. Consider the arguments
that I need to take in. I'll take in a bill, which would be the total
value of the bill itself, and then also a tax rate. Then like I've done before, I'll calculate the total
tax by taking the bill, multiplying it by the tax rate, and then dividing it by 100. Then I do a return, write bill in parenthesis, multiply it by tax rate, and divide by 100. Now I can remove the
declaration I made earlier for the variables
and the calculation. With a function, if you run
the current code as is, it will come back with nothing because a
function is only ever run when it's actually being called. I'll demonstrate this. If I do a print, I can calculate tax and then I pass
it as I've done earlier. One hundred and seventy five is the total bill and then
the tax rate will be 15. I'll also put in
just the total tax and then click on "Run", and the total tax is 26.25. If I want to change the rate, I can reuse the same
function, total tax. I'll call the function,
again, calculate tax. I'll give it a different value
for a bill, say, 164.33. This time I'll change the
tax rate to 22 percent. Clear the screen, and
then click on "Run" and my total tax for the
second item is 36.1526. To clean the outputs
up a bit and make it more visually appealing, I'll put in a round function
which allows control of the number of decimal places
that I want returned. In this case, I'll do two
and then rerun the code. This is a lot neater with 36.15. One of the nice things about a function is that you
can update it once and any part of the
code that calls that function will get
those changes as well. In this video, you've explored basic functions in Python, how to declare functions, and pass and return
data to and from them.