Far you've learned that a project represents the
entire web application. An app acts like a sub-module of the project to provide
specific functionality. Previously you set up
the project folder and created the virtual
environment inside it. In this video, you'll
learn how to create an app inside an existing
Django project. The apple contain
a view to output some texts to the homepage
of the web application. I'm in VS Code with
the project open. First, I need to create a
Django app for my project. For this, I use this
startapp command. I type Python dash
m, Django, startapp. Then I need to give
this app a unique name. I'll call it something
like my app. Before we move on, let's
explore the structure of the startup command
in a little more detail. The startup command has a default syntax where
you need to provide the app label and then you have the option to specify
the destination. Suppose you do not
specify any destination, like in this example. In that case, the
default destination of the current working
directory is used. My command looks good. I
press "Enter" to execute it. Notice that a folder
called my app is created inside
the project folder. If I expand the folder, you will notice that it
contains some files for init, admin, models, tests, and views. If you're new to web
frameworks and Django, I know that this can
seem a bit intimidating. Already the project
contains folders with many different files and I haven't even started coding it. Don't worry if you
don't understand fully what every file
and folder does. It's more important to focus
on the concept that you need to create apps to add different features to a project. As this project has
just one feature to print some text to a webpage, I've created one app to do this. Now that I've created an app, I want to output some
text to the homepage. To do this, I need to work with Django elements called
routes and views. When a user visits the
applications homepage, I want to display some text. In Django, when a user
navigates to a URL, the URL is routed to something called a view or controller. For now you can just
think of views as Python functions that generate the content that
makes up the webpage. They can receive a request
and return a response. Because this request and response will take
place over the web, it'll use two objects called HTTP request and HTTP response. Once again, don't worry if you don't understand all of this. You'll learn more
about routes, views, HTTP requests, and
responses later. For now, just know this is
what you need to use for Django to display some
dynamic text on a webpage. First I want to create
the view function. I open the file views.py,
and the app folder. Notice that it already
contains some code. It's a good idea for
now not to modify the code that's automatically
created by Django. I just need to add to it. I've added three lines of code. Let's explore it now.
The first line is an import statement which is required for the request
response to work. Then the code to create
a function named home. This function returns
an HTTP response object containing the text Hello World. It's important to know that
creating a function that returns an HTTP response will
not do anything on its own. This is just the logic
that will be executed when a user goes to the
project's homepage. To make this work, I need to map the view function to a URL. The URL you will use in your
Django project are stored as a URL configuration in
a file called URLs.py, which is located in
the project directory. The Django documentation or your fellow developers may also refer to this as URL config. You will also explore the
concept of URL configuration, and its code in
more detail later. For now just know
that it acts like a mapping chart
the Django uses to determine which view functions are associated with
a specific URL. If I open this file,
I noticed already contains some code by default. For example, some
import statements from the core Django package and
a list labeled URL patterns. It's in this file that I
need to add the code to map the URL of the homepage to its corresponding view function. First, I import the
view file by typing for my app import and then
views file from that app. Next I need to add the
file path to the list. Let me copy and paste
line 2022 and edit it. I want the view function to execute on the homepage so I can just replace the word admin
with an empty string. Next, I need to specify
the view function, so let's change
this to views.home. Add a name such as home. You can think of name as an
attribute used for naming the URL patterns which
can be useful sometimes. My code looks good now
all I need to do now is save my changes and run
the development server. Recall that I use the
command run server to run the development server. You type the command Python
manage.py runserver. Notice that the development
server starts at the default IP address
which can also be called local host
on your device. You will also likely
receive a warning message stating that you have
unemployed migrations. Django gives you a command
to run the VIX this morning. I'm not going to do that
right now, but don't worry, you'll learn how to do
this when you explore migrations later in this course. Success. If I open the webpage
at the default address, notice that the text
Hello World displays. This text is returned as an
HTTP response from the view. If I change this,
let's say remove the word world and re-save, check the web page, refresh it. Notice that the page
gets updated again. It's important to
know that while the content of the
view is quite basic, this is the process by which every webpage uses Django to
create and update content. In this video, you learned
how to create an app inside an existing Django
project containing a view to output some
text to your webpage.