By now, you should
be familiar with the core structure of
the Django framework. You know that to create
a Django application, you need to create a virtual
environment for the project. Create the project, and then
run the development server. You do this by running specific commands
such as start project and run server using the Django admin
command line utility. Django provides a
set of commands that also generates
a project structure, that contains the
configuration and settings related to the
entire web application. When working on Django projects, developers have two choices for command line utility
to perform tasks. They can use either Django
admin or manage.py. While both can be used to
perform the same tasks, there are some
subtle differences, and your choice of
usage will depend on how you want to
work on your project. In this video, you
will learn about the Django admin and
manage.py commands, and how developers use them to perform administrative tasks. One of the powerful features
of Django is that it provides a ready-to-use
admin interface, in the form of a
command line utility named as Django admin. Django admin is Django's command line utility
for administrative tasks. This utility is
present in the scripts folder of the Django
environment directory. The Django admin utility is executed from inside
the terminal. Manage.py is a script
that is the local version of Django admin and is located
inside the project folder. It sets the Django settings
module environment variable so that it points to your project settings.py file. Django admin is a file that is created when you install Django. The Django admin utility
should be on your system path, if you installed Django via pip, if you do not find it on
your system path make sure you have your virtual
environment activated, and install Django
inside it using a command such as
pip3 install Django. Manage.py is a file that is automatically created each time you create a Django project, this file is specific to the virtual environment
of the project. It does the same thing as
Django admin but also sets the Django settings module
environment variable to point to your project's
settings.py file. Generally, when working on
a single Django project, developers tend to
use manage.py as the administrative tasks
of Django admin can also be performed
with manage.py. However, if you need to switch between multiple
Django settings files, use the Django
admin command with the Django settings module or the settings command
line option. The command line
examples throughout this video use Django admin
to be consistent. But any example can use
manage.py just as well. You may recall that you use the start project command
to create a Django project. This creates a Django project
directory structure for the given project name in the current directory or
the given destination. By default, the new
directory contains the manage.py file and
a project package. This project package contains a settings.py file
and other files. It's important to know that if only the project name is given, both the project directory and the project package will use the same name as
the project name. Also, the project directory will be created in the
current working directory. If an optional
destination is provided, Django will use that
existing directory as the project directory
and create the manage.py file and the
project package within it. A common developer
workflow is to use the period symbol to denote the current
working directory, this avoids having sub-directories
with the same name. Recall that you use the run server command
to run a project. This command starts a lightweight
development web server on your local machine. By default, the server
runs on port 8000 on the IP address 127.0.0.1. However, it is possible
to change this as you can pass in an IP address
and port number explicitly. It is important to
know that if you run this script as a user
with normal privileges, which are recommended,
you might not have access to start to port
on a low port number. This is because low
port numbers are reserved for the
superuser or root user. The development
server works great for application
development and testing. However, Django recommends that you should never use this
server in production, as it has not gone through security audits or
performance tests. The development server
automatically reloads Python code for each
request as needed. You don't need to restart the server for code
changes to take effect. However, some
actions like adding files don't trigger a restart, so you'll have to restart
the server in these cases. In this video, you learned about the Django admin and
manage.py commands, and how developers use them to perform administrative tasks.