As a developer it can be fun to code
something new and exciting, but if you make a mistake you have to spend a lot of
time trying to find and fix the issue. During this process, most of your time
goes to finding what is causing the error, and reproducing it in
a controlled environment. Debugging allows you to find and
fix errors in your code efficiently, and helps you better understand
how your program works. In this video, you will learn how to use
the built in debugger of visual studio code and debug your code. Let's get to it, open the terminal and activate the virtual environment for
your project by typing pipenv shell. Now open the current project directory
in VS code, and select the python interpreter from the command palette,
as shown in the previous video. Create a new Django app and
open the project in VS code. You can find the d bugger
icon on the left sidebar, click on this icon and
it will open a debug panel. When you open it for the first time,
there will be a create a launch.json file link at the top of this panel
along with the debugger icon. Click on this, create a launch
file link which will open a debug configuration list with
many available options. Select Django from this list and
you are ready for debugging. There are two options in the run menu. Start debugging and run without debugging. When you start the debugger it will
automatically activate your virtual environment in a terminal session,
and starts the web server. So, you don't need to manually
start the web server anymore. Now let's get familiar with a few
important terms related to debugging. The first one is breakpoint. A breakpoint is a position where
you intentionally want to pause the execution of your code. When the execution is paused you can
examine the variables value up to that point. You can add or remove breakpoints by clicking on the red
dot beside every line number in VS code. The second one is watch. You can add variables to the watch
list by clicking on the plus icon and examining their values
whenever they change. Using the break points and the watch list,
you can continuously monitor how and when the values of those variables change. Now let's move on to the debug toolbar. The debug toolbar will be visible when the
code execution reaches a breakpoint and is paused. There are six buttons,
let's go through them. The first button is continue or
pause and it lets you execute code on the current line, and it continues
until the next breakpoint is reached. Step over, lets you continue
the execution to the next line and pause. If you use a function call and
you need to go to that function and pause the code execution
you'll use the step into. And step out, lets you go back to the line where it
was called from inside a function. Restart means that you restart
the debugging session and stop ends the debugging session and
stops the web server. Now it's time to put
the debugger to the test, open the views.pi file in your app and
add this code. This code is supposed to present some
even numbers to you, create a route so that this function can be accessed
by browsing the numbers end point. But when you visit the endpoint,
nothing displays in the browser, and that is an indication that there
might be an error in the code. Set a breakpoint on line number nine and
start the debugger. Now revisit that endpoint. The debugger didn't pause code
execution on line number nine. This means that the value of
the remainder was never set to zero, which is why line number
nine didn't execute. Next, let's add this remainder
variable to your watch list by clicking the plus
icon on the watch tab. Set a new breakpoint on line number
eight and restart the debugging session. This time the debugger
paused the code execution. Step over a few more times and notice how
the remainder's value increases by 0.5. Something is wrong here,
the remainder should be either 0 or 1. So, let's examine line
number seven closely. Notice that I used the division
operator instead of modulo. So, let's fix the code and
replace the division operator with modulo. Now remove all the breakpoints,
restart the debugging session, and revisit the end point. And everything is working fine now. Notice how it displays
only the even numbers. And that's how to debug your code using
the built in debugger in VS code. In this video,
you learned some important terms, and you learned how debugging works. You will most likely use this knowledge
in all of your future API projects.