Let's talk about some useful tools
in your browser's developer console. This is Chrome, but you can find
a developer console and similar tools for every browser. Open the developer console,
in the Chrome browser, you can do that by pressing control and
shift and the I key in Windows and Linux. And command and option and I in MacOS. The developer console is helpful
when debugging the API calls met from JavaScript on your website. If you come to the network tab,
you can see many options, but you should focus on the fetch XHR filter. Click on the console's tab and
paste this single line of code to initiate a HTTP GET call to your API and
press enter. You can use any valid URL inside
the fetch function to test this. Now, go to the network tab and
see that the API call has been recorded. It shows menu items on the left side,
click on it and then click on the header step. You can see all the request response
headers involved in this call. The preview tab displays the output. The response tab does the same, but the
preview tab renders the output in a more formatted style and the response tab
shows the raw output of your API call. The initiator is a very handy tab, it shows the line in your JavaScript
from where this API call was initiated. At the top of this developer console, just below the network tab is
a checkbox called divisible cache. If you want to avoid
climb site caching and you expect a fresh output from your APIs,
then you should keep it checked. All the API calls from your JavaScript
will be recorded in this network tab and you can inspect one after another. You can also delete all those recorded
calls by clicking on the clear option next to this red
button at any time. Let us visit any API
endpoint in your browser. For example, this public API https://restcountries.com/v3.1/all. It displays a list of countries but
the JSON output is not formatted and it looks messy. You can install a JSON formatter extension
available for all major browsers. Go to the Chrome extension store, search
for the JSON formatter and install any JSON formatter extension of your choice,
they all work mostly the same. After installing and
enabling a JSON formatter extension, revisit the REST countries API and note
how the output is now nicely formatted.