Upfront planning
and organizing are crucial if you want a
project to be maintainable. Putting in the initial work
will save you effort down the road when you need
to extend the project, add new features
or debug errors. In this video, you will
learn how to organize your API project
with multiple apps. You can use that knowledge
throughout this course and in all your future projects to make them more organized
and efficient. First, it's necessary
to split a big app into multiple apps to make sure that all
your goals are met. Splitting a big app into multiple apps means
it's as decoupled as possible with each app dealing with a particular set
of relevant problems. Such splitting is
an essential step to being productive with Django. Instead of creating an
app that does everything, you should plan it properly, break down the overall
aim into smaller aims, and then create
multiple apps for each. Otherwise, what happens
is that you add features to an app until you realize that it has become unmanageable. At that point, adding more features takes
more time than usual, finding the cause of a
bug becomes frustrating, and it takes so much time to
deal with those issues that you eventually end up with
a huge production block. Creating multiple apps for different aims can
prevent such a block. But creating multiple
apps also means that there are some other things that you have to pay attention to. Let's examine some of those now. You shouldn't use the
global environment for your project dependencies. That's because not every project
uses the same version of a package and not every
project needs all of them. Using the global environment
will create conflicts for the packages and create
more issues than solutions. Always use a virtual environment
to avoid such conflicts. That's exactly why
you're using pipnv to isolate the dependencies in a virtual environment
for your projects. By doing this, you avoid any
potential conflicts and can ensure that your
dependencies are exactly what you need
for your project. Next, when you upgrade an API, it may break the existing
app because the result of the new API might not be
the same as the old one. For such upgrades,
you should always use versioning and keep
the old working API intact and launch
the updated version so that the developers of the client app have
enough time to update their apps to work properly
with the new APIs. For the newer version, always create a separate app
instead of adding everything in the old app because it will be hard to manage over time. Another thing you should do is always save your packages and their version numbers in a separate requirements
dot text file. This is to ensure
your app does not break when you deploy
it to the production, or when someone else picks up your project and
starts working on us. If you are using Pip, you can do is using
the command pip3, freeze greater than sign
requirements dot text. This is an example of a
requirements dot text file, which contains a list
of the packages with their version numbers
used in your project. But if you are using
pipnv, things are easier. It uses the piplock
file to keep track of dependencies and complex inter-dependencies
between the packages. You don't need a
requirements.txt file with pipnv, however, when setting up your
project for the first time, pipnv can process
your dependencies from the requirements.txt file. Next, when it comes
to your resources, it's much better to have separate resource folders
for each of your apps. That way, you can
avoid conflicts and efficiently manage
your files when required. Plus, keeping your
app-specific static files inside the app itself, just like your templates, is a smart way to
stay organized. Something else to
consider is that instead of creating a
combined settings file, you may split the
relevant settings into separate files and include them all from the main settings. Not only does this
process prevent a single long file
that is hard to edit, it also helps you to manage your settings and easily find the ones you
are looking for. You can use Django splits
settings for this purpose. The website link is in the additional resources
at the end of this lesson. Last, instead of putting all the business
logic interviews, take them to the related models. Doing so will help you
write manageable code and organize the necessary
pieces in one place. Placing all the essential
business logic in the models will make
them more powerful, decoupled, and reusable so you can write less code
throughout your project. Let's briefly recap all the ways you can keep your
project organized. You can split your app
into multiple apps, use a virtual
environment rather than a global environment for
Python dependencies, create a new version of an
app when upgrading an API, list your dependencies
in a requirements file, have a separate resource
folder for each app, split your settings into
multiple settings files, and place business logic and
models instead of in views. In this video, you
learned how to keep your project more organized
for better productivity, reusability, and
easier deployments. You have also discovered
some crucial points to keep your project manageable
overtime. Well done.