Django is a robust python framework for
developing web applications and APIs. Since you are already
familiar with Django, it's time to start your first API project. This is going to be a simple API project
to keep track of books in a bookstore. Remember CRUD stands for
create, read, update and delete. You will follow the standard API
conventions you have learned including http methods and status codes. Hope you're excited. Let's get started. A bookstore contacted you
because they need a website and mobile application to streamline
the management of their books. From the website and mobile app
managers should be able to add and edit books quickly. And visitors should be able to browse the
available book collection with no problem. So for this project you will develop
APIs that support these features. First, to store the books in the database,
you need a storage space or table. And you need a Django
model to manipulate and define how the data will
be stored in a table. Django models work like a bridge between
the data and your business logic. For this project, you need to create
a Django model with the following fields. Title, which will be a car
field with a max length of 255. Author, which we have the same
specs as the title field. Price, which will be a decimal field
with a maximum of five digits and two decimal places. And inventory which is
an optional positive small integer field to indicate if
a book is in stock or not. Next you need two API endpoints to
allow users to browse a single book or the whole collection. Following the conventions for rest API, you decide to create
the following endpoints. Forward slash api forward slash books and
forward slash api forward slash books and
book id which is wrapped in curly braces. The first endpoint api books will
deliver all the books in your database. This enables you to list books
that are available to purchase or you can list books that are out of stock. This is where the inventory field
of your book model comes in. The second endpoint which is api books and
book id will show only a particular book. So if someone requests
a book that doesn't exist, they should get an error message with
the appropriate status code of 404. Otherwise for successful requests,
the status code should be 200. However, although the results of
a single book contain different fields such as the id title, author and price, you are still accessing a single item,
not an element in an array or a list. Therefore the results should
not be between square brackets, because it is not an element
in an array or list. Next let's focus on how to
create a new book by making a http post request to
the endpoint api books. On insomnia, you can send a http post request with
essential data like in this screenshot. For a successful request, it should return the newly created
book with a status code 201. If any required data is missing for
example, the author's name It should return an
error message with http status code 400. By now, you know how to create a Django
model, how to create API endpoints and how to create a new book
with an API post request. But the results of an API request
are usually delivered as JSON or xml data. Here is a quick tip for converting
a single model to a JSON response. First, import the model to dict
function from the Django dot forms dot models module and the JSON response
class from the Django dot http module. Now you can retrieve a single
book record for the book id and convert it to a JSON object. Next up, you will learn how to edit and
delete a single book. To edit an existing book, you have to accept a http PUT
request to the second endpoint. To delete an existing book,
you'll send a http DELETE request. For deleting and editing,
you can create a URL pattern for this endpoint in your Django
project as api books, open angle brace colon
pk close angle brace. Previously you learned that data
is passed to the web server in the http body as either a raw JSON string. Or a form URL encoded string
which is also called a payload. Here is an example JSON payload with
a book's title and author data. But you need to parse this string to
access these individual data elements. To do this, use the QueryDict
class from the Django dot http module to parse the request
body to a python dictionary. After this, you can access
the individual elements of the http request body from this dictionary. In this video, you unpacked the scope
of your first API project for a simple book list. Let's recap the steps. First you learned how to create a model
to represent your database table. Then how to create endpoints to request
all the books and specific books. Next, you explored the responses
to these requests and how to convert a model to a JSON response. You also explored how to create,
edit, delete and soft, delete requests and how to parse the http
body to access the data elements. When you plan before coding, you will always get a good result
with minimum effort in debugging. Now that you have the concepts and
quick tips, writing the actual working
code should be straightforward