In programming, it's important
to understand how to control the order in which
your code is executed. For example, suppose you're
invited to an event, you have to consider
whether you need to dress formally or informally. Another example
of a control flow is to consider a light switch. The flow is represented
by the electrical current and the control
is the switch itself, with the two states
of on and off. The order in which you
make decisions matters, and the same applies to
writing effective programs. In this video, you
will learn how to use conditional statements to control flow in Python programs. What is control flow? Control flow refers
to the order in which the instructions in a
program are executed. All programs have decisions
that need to be made. As a result of this, the program will take different
actions or directions. In Python, there are two
types of control flows. First, you can use conditional
statements such as if, else, and elif or else if. Second, you can use loops such as the for loop and
the while loop. Let's explore these a
little further now. The if keyword states that if the condition proves to be true, a function is performed. The else keyword
catches anything which isn't caught by the
preceding conditions. The elif or else if
keyword is Python's way of saying if the previous
conditions were not true, then try this condition. The for loop checks for
specific conditions and then repeatedly executes a block of code as long as those
conditions are met. The while loop repeats
a specific block of code an unknown number of times
until a condition is met. Let's explore conditional
statements in more detail with some practical
examples using the if, else, and elif. I'll now write some code for
a restaurant that wants to apply different discounts based on the amount its
customer spend. To start off, I define a variable for the
customer's bill. I'll call it bill_total and
assign a value of 114 to it. Now, I apply condition
with an if statement. If bill_total is
greater than 100, print the statement bill
is greater than 100. Next, to apply a
discount to bill_total, I need to create a
second variable. I'll do this above the
if statement in my code, call it discount1 and
assign a value of 10 to it. The condition also
has to change. Inside the if statement, I add bill_total equals
bill_total minus discount1. At the very end of
the code snippet, outside the if statement, I'm going to print out what the value of the total bill is. To do this, I type a
print statement that says total bill and
then a plus sign. To add the value of
bill_total here, I need to convert the
integer to a string. I use the str typecasting
function to do this. Let's click on "Run", great. In the terminal, two
strings are printed, bill is greater than 100
and the total bill is 104. But what happens if the
bill is less than 100? I change the value of bill_total
to 95 and press "Run". Notice that this time because the if
condition is not met, it only prints the
statement total bill is 95. But I'd like to print
a statement that says the bill is less than 100. To do this, I add an else statement below
the if statement. I type else: and in
the next line I print the statement bill is less
than 100. Let's run the code. The output in the
terminal now says bill is less than 100 and
total bill is 95. Up to this point, you've
learned how to use the if and else
statements to control the order in which values
are assigned and printed. You're now ready to take
program flow one step further. Say this restaurant wants to add another discount
for bills over 200. How would you do
that? Once again, I first need to create a new variable above
the conditions that I name discount2
which I set equal to 20. If I run the code now, it will still print
out the same output because I haven't changed any of the conditions or values yet. Let's change the
value of bill total to 210 and click "Run". Notice that both statements are printed but discount1
is still applied. It's clear that the if
statement is still executed. Since the value is 210, the condition is still met. To change the program
flow for values over 200, I need to add an and condition
to the if statement. I change the statement to
if a bill total is greater than 100 and bill total
is less than 200. Let's run the code
and see what happens. Now, the discount
wasn't applied. The output just says
bill total is 210. Why? Because the
condition is not met. Now, this is where it
gets really interesting. To add a second condition
for bills above 200, I'll use an else if statement. In between the if
and else statements, I type elif which
stands for else if, and then bill total
is greater than 200. Print the statement bill
is greater than 200. In the next line, I
apply the new discount. I type bill total equal to
bill total minus discount2. First, let me clear my screen so you can focus
just on the results. Now I press "Run". Notice how the program
flow has changed. The first condition was not met, so the code went to the
second condition where the value of bill total
was compared to 200. Since it was greater than 200, the statement bill is greater
than 200 was printed. The code then proceeded past the else condition because the previous elif
condition was true. Remember the else condition only execute if none of the
preceding conditions are true. Finally, it printed
the statements at the end of the code snippets, namely total bill is 190. This proves that
discount2 was applied. Congratulations, you now know how to control
program flow with if, else, and else if. Once you become proficient in using conditional statements, programming becomes
a lots of fun. I encourage you to test it out. In this video, you
learned how to use conditional
statements in Python. Writing conditional statements
is an essential part of programming and I encourage you to practice
them in your code. The next time you need
to make a decision, think about the conditions
involved and how they can be represented if you
were to code them in Python.