Computers and their programs are
integrated into our lives at a scale we could not have imagined. Over the past 20 years, we have seen
dramatic jumps in technological gains in areas of distributed computing,
Cloud computing and AI improvements such as voice and
face recognition and self driving cars. In the next few minutes, let me give
you a brief overview of the history of programming and you will also learn
the basics of how programming works. Computing dates quite
far back in our history. Charles Babbage in 1822, while studying
at Cambridge University in Britain was working on bettering calculating
devices such as navigation charts and astronomical tables, which at the time
were used by many ships at sea. Babbage came to the realization that
all these calculating devices contained various amounts of human error and he
wondered if there was a better solution. His solution was the difference engine. The difference engine used mechanical
gears with numbers 0 to 9 etched onto their gaps separated by gear's teeth. Its key function was to carry
out one operation that was computed by manually moving hand cranks
until the final answer was revealed. After building a working prototype, Babbage spent many years working on
further improving his designs and constructing improved versions
of the original idea. He created another device called
a different engine two, but ultimately produced a new and better
concept called the analytical engine. The analytical engine is widely accepted
as being the basics of modern day computing. Babbage's friend, Ada Lovelace published
a document describing how the analytical engine could perform
a sequence of calculations, which is essentially what
a computer program does. However, the analytical engine
was never completed and Babbage, like a lot of developers did not
invest in good documentation. With the historical
side of things covered, let's now delve into understanding
what programming is. Before I explain programming, it's helpful to understand how computers
work at the most fundamental level. Computers only understand binary code,
which consists of two digits 0 and 1. This may seem quite strange at first,
but with a little explanation, it will all make sense. 0 and 1 relate to different electrical
states similar to a light switch, 0 is equal to off and 1 is equal to on. For example, in programming when
you calculate numbers, cost or any arithmetic,
you've mostly used decimal numbers. Every program written needs to be
converted to binary code or machine code. An example of decibel
to binary conversion is Decimal one is binary one
decimal two is binary 10, Decimal three is binary 1, 1 and so on. Computer represents the binary code by
using tiny electrical conductors called transistors. These transistors are housed inside
the central processing unit. CPU, which is essentially
the brain of the computer. When a program is written using any type
of language it needs to be compiled or interpreted. The outcome is to turn
readable programming code for us into readable programming code for
the computer. It's essentially extremely hard for
humans to read and understand binary and
therefore using it is error prone. It's far easier for us to read and
write programming languages. So what is programming programming is
the ability to provide a computer with a set of instructions in a particular
language that it can understand and perform those operations or tasks. In other words, you need to tell the
computer what you wanted to do in a format and language it can understand
programming is a skill. The more you practice and
learn, the better you become. At first. It can take quite a while to write
straightforward programs as you progress, you'll become more familiar
with the language and how the logic in conditions
should be applied. Programming is also a creative skill. That's because you can write computer
program to solve problems in many different ways. And that brings us to
the end of this video. You now know the brief
history of programming and how typical computer programming works.