When you start using Python, it's important to make
sure that it works correctly on your
operating system, with your chosen integrated
developer environment or IDE, in this case, Visual
Studio Code or VS code. An essential step in using the software is to make
sure that the right version of Python is used as the interpreter when
running VS code. In this video, I will
demonstrate how to set up VS code and make sure that it points to the correct
Python interpreter. On my Mac, when I
open Launchpad, I type in visual or VIS for
short and it opens VS Code. VS Code provides a
walk-through guide for setting up Python. This can be found on
the welcome screen. However, if I don't see
it in the main view, I can click on "More"
and then I click on, "Get started with Python
development" it brings up the guide I can use to verify that I have everything
set up correctly. Next, I check the Python is installed by opening
the terminal window. I click on the bottom
left of the screen, and then on the terminal tab. Then I type Python space, dash, dash, and
the word version. When I hit "Enter"
notice that it returns python version three dot
ten, which is correct. By default, Mac comes with
Python version two dot seven. But this is not the
version I want to use. Instead, I want to use
the most recent version. Next, I create a
simple Python file. To do this, I click
on "Create Python file" in the get started with
Python Development Guide. I put in a print statement
by typing print Hello World. I will explain
what a print is at a later stage, but for now, you just need to know that
it's for printing out a value within the
terminal itself. Now, I save it by
clicking on "File", "Save as" and then
entering the file name, hello, underscore world dot py. PY or py is the file extension I have to use when saving a Python file. Now I have to check that I can run that file and to do that, I need to set my
Python interpreter, so I go to the get started with Python
Development Guide again, and I click on "select
Python interpreter", which opens up the Python
interpreter screen. Here I can choose
which version to use from the drop-down menu. Notice that I have
different versions of Python installed, but the one I want to use, is the one I installed
through Home-brew, and it is also the
recommended one. To bring up the Python
interpreter screen without the get started guide, I can press the
command key, "Shift", and the letter P. Then
I type in Python, followed by a colon, and I choose Python select interpreter from the
top of the menu. Then I press "Enter". When selecting the
version of Python, it's best to choose
the recommended one, but make sure that it's
the latest version that you have installed on
your operating system. Next, I'll run the file. First, I close the
Get Started Guide. Then in the top
right of the screen, you'll notice a play button
with a drop-down menu, which has the option for running the Python file or
running it in debug. I click on the "Run
Python file" option, and then I click on
the "Play button". Note that the output
appears in the terminal. I have now validated that I have VS code pointing to the
correct Python version that I want to use and
that I am able to run and execute scripts
directly on the IDE. You now know how to create and save a Python file
and how to select the correct Python interpreter to run your files in VS Code.