Would you like to be able to
program on different platforms? For example, Windows, Mac and
Linux in an easy syntax similar to the English language,
then Python is your solution. It's a high level programming language
that works on many different platforms. By the end of this video, you'll know
the benefits of learning Python and understand where to use Python. Python was created by Guido van Rossum and
released in 1991. It was designed to be readable and takes a lot of similarities between
the English language and mathematics. Since its release,
it has gained greatly in popularity and supports a rich selection of
frameworks and libraries. At present, it's currently one of the most popular
programming languages to learn today. It's widely used in all areas of business,
such as web development, artificial intelligence, machine learning, data analytics and various
different programming applications. Python is also very easy to learn and
get started with. Given that the syntax resembles
the English language, it makes it easier to read and decipher. Programs that's written in Python also
require less code in comparison to programming languages such as C or Java. One of Python's key advantages is that
it makes developers very productive and allows projects to be
completed more quickly. Creating good software that is used by
many is hard and very time consuming. The simplistic nature of
Python abstracts a lot of complexity away from the developer to
allow them to focus on the task at hand. Given the language is quite
easy to understand and pick up, it can be an easier route to market for new programmers starting out to get
something produced in much less time. Compared to some other languages,
Python has a much easier learning curve. It lends well to the philosophy
of write less, do more. Now that you can describe the benefits of
learning Python and where it can be used, it's also good to know that Python
developers are in high demand. Becoming a Python developer makes for
a good career choice.