Did you know that Python
can be run directly in the command line on Windows
or terminal in Mac and Linux. In this video, you
will learn more about the core differences
of running code from the command
line via the IDE, as well as exploring
ways in which you can run programs through Python. Let's explore the two main
ways to run Python's programs. The first way is using
the Python shell, and the second way is
to run a Python file directly from the
command line terminal. The Python shell is useful for running and
testing small scripts. For example, it allows
you to run code without the need for
creating new.PY files. You start by adding snippets of code that you can run
directly in the shell. Let's explore the
second main way to run Python's programs, which is running a Python file directly from the command
line or terminal. Note that any file that
has the file extension of.PY can be run by
following command. For example, type
Python then a space, and then type the file
name with a.PY extension. VS Code is a better choice than using the Python
shell or running it directly from the terminal because besides including
both of these options, it comes with a plethora
of additional improvements that make coding in Python
a better experience. Visual Studio Code also offers features such
as auto-completion, debugging, and code syntax, highlighting, whitespace,
and indentation helpers. I'm now going to demonstrate
the different ways that you can run Python
programs in VS Code. There are two options run
programs through Python. One is to run directly from the command line or the
terminal if you're on Mac, and then the other option is
run directly from the IDE, which in this case is
Visual Studio Code. Let's find out how to do this. First, I open the
terminal window or command line
window from within IDE by clicking on the terminal menu and
selecting new terminal. Now I run the Hello World dot capital Py scripts directly
from the terminal. I can run this by typing
the command Python, and then the name of the file, hello worlds.Py, followed
by the name of the file, then hit the Enter key. The result is Hello world. There's a second option
using the terminal, which is entering it
into the Python shell. If I only type the Python, hit the Enter key, it opens
a Python shell approach. Here I can write code and run it directly within the
terminal window. I can, for example,
use the same code that I have above the
print Hello World code. I hit the Enter key, and that will print
out the words Hello World directly
in the shell. Let's say I want to
exit from the shell. I then type in the word exit. As this is a function, I must add the parenthesis, hit the Enter key, and now I'm back in
the command window. To do the same from
within the IDE, I just close the
terminal window. Here I can run any Python
scripts from the IDE directly by using the buttons in the top right-hand corner of the screen by selecting
from the drop-down either the run Python file
or the debug Python file. Now I click on the Run button and the terminal should
open automatically. The result is hello
world that is printed. You have now explore
the two options that are available for running Python code directly from the
terminal or command line, and from the IDE. That brings us to the
end of this video. You now know the core
differences in running code from the command
line by the IDE. You're also able to
demonstrate ways in which you can run
programs through Python.