When you start using Python, it's important to make
sure that it works correctly on your
operating system with your chosen Integrated
Development Environment or IDE, in this case, Visual
Studio code or VS Code. An essential step in using this software is to make
sure that the right version of Python is used as the interpreter when
running VS Code. In this video, I'll demonstrate
how to set up VS code on Windows and make sure that it points to the correct
Python interpreter. I start by opening
the VS Code Editor. To do this, I click on the
Windows icon in the taskbar, which brings up a menu. I then type Visual Studio
Code in the search bar. The best match for the search is the Visual Studio Code app, which I click on to open. VS Code is now open. Next, I select, 'Get started with
Python Development'. This is a useful
guide to setting up Python on the VS Code IDE. The first step in the guide
is to install Python. I already have Python installed
and I can verify it by typing python dash dash
version in the terminal. To open the terminal, select the terminal tab on the top menu and
choose 'New terminal'. After I press 'Enter', it displays Python version
3.10, which is correct. The second step in the guide
is to create a Python file. I do this by clicking
on the 'Create a Python File' option
in the guide menu, and then clicking on the 'Create Python file' button
that appears. Next, I put in a print statement by typing print Hello World. I will explain what a
print is at a later stage. But for now, you just need
to know that it's for printing on a value within
the terminal itself. Now I see this as
a Python file and my root level directory
by clicking on 'File', 'Save As' and then entering
the file name hello_world.py. Py is the file extension I have to use when
saving a Python file. The next step in the guide is to select a Python interpreter. I click on this
option in the menu. Then I click on
the select Python interpreter button that appears, which brings up all the versions of Python I have installed. I do this because I want to make sure that when I run
the Python script, it will choose the
correct interpreter. The version that comes
up is Python version 3.10 and I set this as the interpreter because it
is the most recent version. To test and verify that
everything is working correctly, I have to run the Python file. In the top right of the screen you'll notice a play button. I closed the guides so
that it displays better. The Play button has a drop-down
menu that has the option for running the Python file
or running it in debug. I'll click on the 'Run
Python file' option. Note in the terminal
window that it has run the file using Python 3.10 as the interpreter and I get the output
of hello world. That means that I'm now set
up to use Python directly in the IDE so I can run
and debug my scripts. You now know how to create and save a Python
file and how to select the correct
Python interpreter to run your files in VS Code.