Python uses different datatypes of processing, use
information effectively. Sometimes you need to
change the data type of a variable after you've
collected values for it. Let's say for example, a user submits a
form on our website. One of the fields
was an integer, but the data was
passed as a string. This is a problem because the only way to perform
calculations with the numbers saved
as a string is to convert it to an
integer datatype. To do this, you can use
typecasting in Python. In this video, you'll learn about two different type
casting methods in Python. You will also learn to apply typecasting using the
provided Python functions. What is typecasting?
Typecasting is the process of converting
one data type to another. Python has two
different types of conversions; implicit
and explicit. Let's explore each now in a little more detail,
starting with implicit. Implicit data type
conversion is performed automatically by Python's
compiler to prevent data loss. It will convert, for example, an int to a float if it picks up that the inserted
value is a decimal. It's important to note that
Python will only be able to convert values if the data
types are compatible. int and float are compatible
but Strings and int are not. If data types are
not compatible, Python will throw a type error. Alternatively,
developers can perform typecasting with the explicit
data type conversion. You do this by using the
provided Python functions. There are many functions
but some of the most common are string,
integer and float. Let me take you through some of these functions and
how to use them. First is the string
cost function. This is used to convert
any datatype into a string datatype. To
use this function. You type str followed by the value that you want to
convert between parentheses. Next is the int type
casting function. To use this type int followed by the value that you want to
convert between parentheses. The float function is another common type
of costing function. Once again, you type
the word float and add the value that you
want to convert in-between parentheses. Python has many more
typecasting functions and they also have a
similar structure. They are, ord, which returns an integer representing the underlying
unicode character. The hex function, which converts a given integer to a
hexadecimal string. An oct which takes
an integer and returns a string representing
an octal number. There are also tuple, set, list, and dict, which you will learn more
about later in the lesson. In this video, you learned
about typecasting in Python. It's important to remember that datatypes are not unchangeable. You can convert datatypes using the provided Python
functions if you need to.