Variables are an
essential part of programming and they are used to store all
different types of data. You might even say they are the cornerstone of programming, this is because
they allow you to work with and manipulate data. Therefore, it's important
that you can identify variables and recognize
how they are used. Declaring variables in Python
is very straightforward. All you need to do is declare a name and
assign it a value. The word variable refers to something that
can be changed. To do this in Python, for a variable that has
already been declared, you only need to reassign
or redeclare it. Let's explore an example. Let's say the variable X has been assigned the value of 10. To change this, you only
have to redeclare it, so it will have the value of 20. The examples so
far have relied on simple naming conventions
such as X, Y, and Z. When working on a project
with other developers, it will become
increasingly difficult to know what these variables
mean or refer to. As a programmer, you will write a lot of code over time, and if it's been a few months, you're most likely not remember exactly what the code
was supposed to do. Using generic variables
like X and Y doesn't give any information about that
variable and where it is used. Giving meaningful names to your variables that
makes sense in the given context
will allow you and other programmers to easily
understand what's going on. As a programmer, it's
important to understand that data will change throughout the life cycle of your program. Whether it's getting
user input via a web form or working with variables inside
the code itself, the key function of
the variable is to keep a reference to some value. Now that you have
a basic grasp of variables and their
role in Python, let's move on to a more
practical demonstration of the variables and
how to use them. I'll demonstrate how to
use variables in Python, but first, I want to briefly talk about
naming conventions. There are different options
available to you as a developer when it comes
to naming your variables. One option is called camelCase. The first letter of the
first word is lowercase, and the first letter of
every word after that is uppercase with no
spaces between words. For example, if I have a
variable called my name, I'll put the M of my in
lowercase and the N of name in uppercase with the
rest of the letters in lowercase and no space
between the words. I can take a different
approach with snake_case. When using snake_case, you keep everything
in lowercase letters, but you use an underscore
between words. If I want to make the
variable my name, my_name would be the
result of this approach. Although you have different
options as a developer, it's a good idea to be
consistent when you are creating variables
across your programs. Let me clear the
screen so I can begin. I create a variable in Python by initializing a variable
and assigning it to value. All I have to do is
name the variable. For example, if I
type X equals 5, I have declared a variable
and assign it a value. I can also print out the
value of a variable by calling the print statements and passing in the
variable name, which in this case is X, so I type print X. When I run the program, I get the value of five, which is the assignments as
I gave the initial variable. Let me clear my screen again. You have several options when it comes to declaring variables. You can declare
any different type of variable in terms of value. For example, X could equal
a string called Hello. To do this, I type
X equals hello. I can then print
the value again, run it, and I find the
output is the word hello. Behind the scenes, Python automatically assigns
the datatype for you. You'll learn more about this in an upcoming video on data types. You can declare
multiple variables and assign them to a
single value as well. For example, making a, b, and c or equal to 10. I do this by typing a equals
b equals c equals 10. I print all three
values separately. When I click on the
"Run" button again, I find that all three of those assignments have
10 as their value. Again, I clear my screen before I move on to the next example. Yet another option you have is to do multiple assignments. For instance, I type a, b, c, separated by commas equals, 1, 2, 3 also separated by commas. In this way, I have
assigned each of those values to the
corresponding letter. A equals 1, b equals 2, c equals 3. To test this out, I can print all three variables. Click "Run", and I'll
find that the values 1, 2, 3 correspond to the
declaration above. Another important point that
you should be aware of is variable assignments and
how you can change it. A variable is subject to change. Throughout the life
cycle of your program, you will make changes
to the value or the assignment of
the variable itself, so you need to know
how to do that. Let's explore another example. I type a equal to 10, and I print that value. After this, I change
the value of a to five, and I print that value too. When I click the "Run" button, a prints out as 10en on
the first line and is five on the line below
because value is reassigned. Finally, you need to know
how to delete a variable. My variable, it's value is 10, and I've printed it out, and then on a new line, I type the delete command, or del for short, followed by a space
and a letter a, which represents my variable. I then print the variable by
using the print function, and then I click
the "Run" button. The value is first given us 10 because the variable
still existed, but after the deletion, it shows an error saying
that a is not defined. You just covered variable
naming conventions. Now you know how to declare a variable and assign its value, and you know how to declare any different type of
variable in terms of value. You can declare
multiple variables and assign them as single value, and you can do
multiple assignments. Finally, you also learned
how to delete a variable. That brings us to the
end of this video. You can now identify variables and recognize how to
use them in Python.