Computer systems needs to interpret the
different data values. In programming, data can
come in different types. By the end of this video, you'll be able to describe the different data types in Python. A data type is an attribute
associated with a piece of data that tells a
computer system how to interpret its value. Knowing what data types
to use ensures that data is collected in
the preferred format. It also ensures that the value of each
property is as expected. Python offers raw
data types to allow data to be assigned to
variables or constants. The five main types
which are classed as literals consist of numeric, sequence, dictionary,
Boolean, and set. Some of these data
types can be extended. For example, the numeric data
type can consist of types, integer, float, and
complex number. For now, let's just
discuss data types in more detail,
starting with numeric. In programming,
you need to decide on what type will
suit your needs. For example, when
working with currency, you're most likely going
to use the numeric type of float as it allows decimal
places to be counted. To determine a type of variable, Python also provides a
function names type, which will provide
the class type based on the variable
being passed. Python offers three different
kinds of numeric types, which are integers, floats,
and complex numbers. The integer class represents
any non-fractional number, that is whole numbers
with no decimal places. These numbers can be
positive or negative, for example, 10 or minus 10. Floats are numbers that contain decimal places and are
represented by the floats class, examples are 10.5 or 6.7. The complex class is
used to represent complex numbers
which are made up of both real and imaginary numbers, a equals 10 plus 10j. Next, let's explore the
sequence data types. Sequence types of clusters
container types that contain one or more of the
same type in an ordered list. They can also be accessed based on the index in the sequence. Python has three
different sequence types, namely strings,
lists, and tuples. Let's explore each
of these briefly, now starting with strings. A string is a sequence
of characters that is enclosed in either a
single or double quotes. Strings are represented by the string class
or str for short. Lists are a sequence of one or more different
or similar types. They are essentially
an array and hold any type inside square brackets. Each item can be
accessed by its index. Tuples are similar to
lists in many ways. They contain an ordered
sequence of one or more types, but the main difference is
that they are immutable. This means that
the values inside the tuple cannot be
modified or changed. Tuples are represented
by the tuple class and hold datatypes
wrapped in parentheses. The next data type
is dictionary. Dictionary store data in a
key value object structure. Each value can be accessed
directly by its key. Dictionaries can also
store any data type. For example, suppose you declare a variable named ed and
assign a dictionary to it, the dictionary contains a
grouping of key value pairs. The first pair is a: 22, where a is the key
and 22 is a value. The second pair is b: 44.4, where b is a key and
44.4 is the value. You can then output the value of 22 by accessing its
key, which is a. Next, let's explore
Boolean data types which are simply represented
as True or False. Combined with logical operators, Booleans are used to check whether a condition
is True or False. In this example, I'm checking the underlying data type of
the values True and False. The class bool is returned, meaning it is Boolean. The last data type is set, which is an unordered and
non-indexed collection of non-repeated values. Let me demonstrate an
example of this data type. Suppose I assign a set of four items to the variable
named example set. I then check the type of the value stored
in the example set variable by passing it
to the type function. Python reports that the
underlying data type that the example set variable
holds is a set. In programming, data type
is an important concept. Variables can store data of different types and
different types of data can do different things. Let's explore these
in further detail. Whenever you declare
a variable in Python, the datatype is
automatically assigned for you based on the
value of that variable. Let me demonstrate this
by typing a variable called a and assigning
it to a value of 10. To check the data type that
has been assigned by Python, I select Print and use
the type function. I then pass in the variable a as the parameter and
click on "Run". From the output on the terminal, I can see a class of floats was assigned because there
was a decimal place. Here is another example. I'm using the variable b and I sign it a decimal value of 2.3. To check the data type
assigned by Python, I print out type b
and click on "Run". From the output on the terminal, I can see a class of floats was assigned because there
was a decimal place. This is a different assignment
than the standard integer. These are the numeric data
types offered in Python. To declare a variable
as a string, I wrapped a text with
single or double quotes. Again, I run the
print statement to the function type and pass the variable c as the parameter. When I click on "Run", the outputs and the terminal now displays the classes int, float, and str for string. This sequence is also
applicable for other datatypes. For example, I can create
a list of numbers by using the variable d and
assigning it the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4. When I run the print
statement with a function type and pass the variable d
as the parameter, the class list displays
after I click "Run". Each time I assign a value
to a particular variable, Python behind the
scenes is automatically assigning the correct data
type of that variable. In this video, you learned about the different data
types in Python. I encourage you to start experimenting with these data types in your practice code.