A heap may not sound like a particularly
promising name for a data structure. However, it is a very important
organizational tool and combines some features and
benefits of other data structures. In this video, you will learn about
the structure and features of heaps. You will also discover how heaps can
be used to organize elements from least to most important. And how by limiting the functionality
of heaps productivity can be increased. So let's get started with heaps. A heap is a specialized data structure
that is modeled like a tree but behaves in a similar way to
a queue though with a notable difference of assigning
priority to some elements. Each element in a heap has a key value and the priority can either be the smallest or
the largest key value. Heaps that place priority on the lowest
valued key are called min heaps and ones that place the priority on
the maximum value are called max heaps. Heaps were first introduced as a means of
storing and searching data efficiently. But since then it has been recognized
that there are a number of very useful operations that
a heap can be applied to. A heap has a few select core
operations that it can perform. Insert, find_min, and
delete_min for a min-heap and insert, find_max and
delete_max for a max heap. For the rest of this video, the discussion
will revolve around min heaps but you can reverse everything said and
it will apply to a max heap. The only difference between the two
is where the priority is placed, as with many of the data structures
discussed on this course. These methods are the fundamental
elements that constitute a heap. Different implementations in
different languages could have additional methods added. An instance of which may be decreased
key this is where the value of a key is changed. The motivation for which would lie with the priority of
the key in real-world instance changes. When discussing trees it was
mentioned that binary trees sought values in order of size. If the value is less than
the node go down the left path, if the value is greater than
the node go down the right path. Because of this underlying architecture, heaps are often built using binary
trees though another approach would be to make an array act in a way that
mimics the behavior of a binary tree. The minimum value is placed
on the root node and each subsequent value is placed on
the hierarchy where their value dictates. This means that to retrieve
the minimum value from a heap is O of one because it will be
stored always at the root. Unlike a stack, retrieving a value does
not cause it to be moved from the tree. Instead, a delete_min method
exists that can be called if the intent is to remove
items as they are processed. Typically a heap would not support
operations such as deleting items other than the priority element. The reason being that a heap is built for
specialized purpose, that involves identifying
the most important item and returning this in
the shortest time possible. Then queuing up the next
item of importance. Deleting items in the tree would
require restructuring the tree and this would lead to
a degradation in performance. If you are looking for
a data structure that can act in this way, then you might consider
structures other than a heap. insertion into a min-heap is
done through propagation. Each item is inserted at the root, a comparison is then
made with the left value. If this is less than the newly
inserted item, they are swapped, this continues until the newly inserted
item has no greater value above it and the value below is lower. Insertion in a heap can be
achieved in O of log n time. Having examined the underlying
mechanisms that power heap, you may now have some idea of how
this data structure can be applied. Considering that its inherent structure
prioritizes a particular value from a group of elements, the natural
application would be for scheduling. This can apply to CPUs routers or
packet handling. Additionally, one could imagine that
such a structure would be useful in prioritizing certain tasks like interview
scheduling where the key used to store the candidate may relate to what stage
of the interview process they lie at or what priority the role has
within the organization. Having a process that
automatically applies schedules based on importance can be
a huge time saving device. In this video, you have gained
a greater understanding of heaps and how they can be used to organize
elements from least to most important. You have been shown that
by limiting functionality, productivity can be increased. As with the selection
of any data structure, it is important to find the right tool for
the right job.