At this point of the course, you have been introduced to several different
data structures. You've discovered
that there's not a perfect way of
storing information. Instead, there is a wide
variety of approaches, each of which is an
appropriate solution depending on the problem. In this video, you will learn
about what a hash table is, its structure and inherent
features and how it works. You will also explore some
of the advantages of using hash tables and discover what is meant by
collisions in hashing. A hash table contains
several slots or buckets to hold key value pairs. It requires a hashing
function to determine the correct bucket to
place the data into. A hashing function is any
algorithm, or formula, that is applied to a key to
generate a unique number. Each data item to be stored
must have a key and a value. The key is taken and the hashing function
is applied to it, such that it is reduced
to a fixed size value. There are a variety of hashing
functions one could apply. You may be familiar with them
in relation to compression. When you want to send
information over the Internet, you might first
compress the size of it to a manageable
number of bytes, send it over the Internet and then decompress it
on the other side. This is an example of
how hashing works. It reduces the key to a small, manageable size, which then
acts as the index indicator. What information is
used to generate the index is dependent
on the application. It might be the data itself
if it is small enough, or it might be the last four digits of
an employee ID number, or it might be a key
in a dictionary. Most programming
languages have built-in hashing functions like MD5, SHA, or CRC32, so implementing a
hashing function is a straightforward job. When discussing Big O notation, the idea that speed
and space are often at odds with one
another, was introduced. This means that you can reduce the time taken to
retrieve an item, but in doing so, you add
overhead to your application. Hash tables
prioritize speed over space and can retrieve an
item in O of one time. Recall the discussion on arrays. When you want to check
if a value exists, a search must be executed
that checks each element of the list and makes a comparison
with a target value. Worst-case scenario, this
will take O of n time, or in other words, if the element was at
the end of the array, it must make n checks. Hash tables offer an
alternative approach to storing and searching data. This is done through
use of an index. To achieve this, you must implement an
algorithm that takes in a key and maps it to a value which is
stored in an index. Then when a new
key is presented, the algorithm need only
run the same function and determine where in
the index the value lies. Much like an index in a book, this will drastically speed
up the time it takes to identify the location
of some data. You are likely to find hash
tables used in caches, dictionaries, database
indexes and sets. Consider a scenario where you
have an array of 10 keys, which are numbers 0-9. You would like to employ
a hashing function to decide where in memory
to store these numbers. You opt for a
simplistic approach of applying the modulus
of 20 to the numbers. For each key from 0-9, you apply your hashing function. Start with 0 mod 20 equals 0, 1 mod 20 equals 1, 2 mod 20 equals 2, 3 mod 20 equals 3 and so forth. In this way, you would generate nine unique values which are used to represent in memory, where the data associated
with those keys is placed. This example is simplistic, but illustrates the mechanism
behind creating HashMaps. The issue arises
when the number of keys to be stored
grows beyond 20. Remember 1 mod 20 equals 1, but 20 mod 21 also equals 1. Let's move on to
collisions in hash tables. What are collisions
in hash tables? A hashing function will
apply a clever algorithm that will reduce the size of the key to a manageable size. Some approaches are more
intricate than others. What happens if the result
of two hashings is the same? To expand on this idea, it is worth pondering on Von
Mises' birthday paradox. Due to probability, sometimes an event is more likely to occur than
we believe it to. In this case, if you survey a random group of
just 23 people, there is actually about a 50-50 chance that two of them will have
the same birthday. This is known as the
birthday paradox. Say there are 24 employees in a company and a clever
hashing function has been applied that takes
the date and month of their birthday and
uses this as an index. With only 24 employees
and a hash table of 365 index slots to hold
a reference to them, you may think the probability of any two employees sharing
a birthday is unlikely. In fact, it has
been shown that it is over 50 percent
likely to occur. Next time you're at a party, be sure to check if any two attendees have the same birthday to
check for yourself. What this illustrates, is that there will be duplicate
hashes generated when the hashing function
is applied to the key and that allowances
must be made for it. There are a few
solutions to the issue. One solution is to grow the table every time
a collision occurs, then increase the complexity
of the hashing approach, redistributing the
values to new addresses. In this way, a table will grow organically to match the
size of the data required. Another is to create a
linked list at the point of collision and simply store
the additional values. In the event of a collision, instead of storing a value, you would instead store
a linked list of values. In this video, you discovered
what hash tables are, the structure and features
and how they work. You have also learned that hashing is a very
clever approach to generate O of one time searches using a hashing
function and an index. You've explored collisions
and how they can be used to inform the size of the
table and you even learned, that if you are at a party
with more than 24 guests, it is more likely than not, that at least two will
share the same birthday.