The developer that wrote
Python loved Monty Python's Flying Circus a TV show
instead of the snake, the python, he thought the name Python was short and
cryptic and he made it the language name. [MUSIC] Hi, I'm Layla Rizvi, I am a background software engineer on
Instagram calling in San Francisco. I've been coding in Python for 10 years, it was the first programming
language I learned. I use Python every single day,
for my job at Meta, it's my favorite language to write in
because it's so easy to use and simple. The first application I had to code
in Python was to create a calculator. Since Python was the first language I
learned my first application in python was a little tricky for me to build,
learning how to indent right. How to do spacing, learning the syntax and
learning what loops are, and all these core computer science concepts
is very hard for me, but I tried for a while and it worked out. Some important ways that you have
interacted with Python in your day to day activities likely include using Instagram
using Facebook, using Google or Spotify. Python is such an ubiquitous
language that you've likely used it, regardless of whether or
not you know you've used it. Python is also used for TensorFlow, which is a machine learning framework
that Airbnb uses to classify images, and some healthcare companies
used to classify MRI data. At Meta, Python is used for
the Instagram back end, it is used for ads machine learning algorithms. It is also used for production engineers
who keep our services alive and running. You should go through the process of
learning Python even though it might be challenging because it's
an easier language to learn. It's simple,
it has a lot of libraries that support it. So it also makes it
easier to build more and more features because there's a lot
of engineers that use it already. So it makes it easier to
develop features quickly and you can see results a lot
faster with Python. Thanks for
watching the video with us today and good luck on your journey
as a software engineer.