Welcome to the programming
with Python course. Python is a versatile high level
programming language available on multiple platforms. It's a language that's used
by companies large and small to build a diverse
range of applications. Areas that Python is used
in include web development, data analytics and business forecasting. The Python programming language
syntax is very similar to English. It's intuitive and beginners will often
quickly understand what's going on. It's also a great choice for
experienced programmers, who will appreciate its power and
adaptability. Because Python is a very popular software
development tool, it's important for you as a new developer to know how it
works and to know how to code with it. This course covers the key point you need
to know to begin programming in Python. Starting with module one, you'll get
started with a Python programming language and associated foundational concepts. You'll learn to recognize common
applications of Python, and you'll be able to explain foundational
software engineering concepts, use operators to program output in
Python and use control flow and loops to solve a coding problem. And in module two, you'll build on what
you've learned in the first module by learning about the core concepts that
underpin the Python programming language, variables and
different data types in Python. And you'll get to use control flow and loops to execute code
under specific conditions. This module also introduces you
to working with functions and data structures in Python, recognizing
errors, determining their causes and deciding how to handle them. And creating, reading and
writing data in files. In module three, you'll learn about the
programming paradigms of functional and object oriented programming. You'll use functions to explore
algorithmic thinking, furthermore, you will learn how to work with objects,
classes and methods in Python. Then you move on to dealing with modules,
packages, libraries and tools in module four. Here, you learn how to find, import and
use popular Python modules and packages, leverage powerful tools to
optimize the programming workflow. You'll discover different types of
testing and their features, and you'll be able to use testing
tools to write a test. Module five is the graded assessment
where you get to demonstrate your Python coding ability. You'll be able to exercise the skills and
knowledge from this course. And you'll have the opportunity to
reflect on the course content and the learning path that lies ahead of you. You may have encountered some concepts or terminology in this video that
you don't fully understand. Don't worry about that right now. This course is designed to
address all such issues and give you a solid coding
foundation in Python. Enjoy the course.