I'd like you to think of a physical
building and its structure, interior, exterior and
decorations in a similar fashion. When it comes to websites and web apps you
can think of html as being the frame and structure. CSS, however, is the paint,
wallpaper, fixtures, artwork and overall style or look and feel. In other words, CSS tells the web browser
how to display html elements on screen. When using CSS, there are five
elements you need to understand. A declaration block starts
with a left curly bracket and ends with the matching
right curly bracket. In between these curly brackets
are the style declarations. Let's cover these elements one by one. The first element of the CSS
rule is the selector. This indicates which html element or
elements we want to style. For example, you can create a rule that
uses the h1 selector to change the color of all heading one tags
in a web page to gray. In this case, hi is the selector. Color is property and
gray is the value of the property. Now let's focus on the structure
of the declaration block. Each declaration is made up of
two parts a property and a value. For example, in this case the properties
that you want to change are the color and the background color of the header or
selector. Once you have decided which
properties you want to define, then you must assign
each property of value. The color property gets
a value of blue and the background color property
gets a value of gray. This will result in all heading one tags
displaying blue text on a gray background in the browser. By now, you have learned that CSS
tells the web browser how to display html elements on screen. Now, let's work through
an example to change a set of heading elements using
different CSS rules. I will share a pro tip
demonstrating how to install and use the VS code extension live
preview to speed up your workflow. Okay, so
I'm back in visual studio code here. Did you know that you can add additional
functionality by using extensions. If you click on the extensions tab, you can install the live
preview extension by Microsoft. If you are running VS code locally,
you can install and use this extension. Once installed, right click on your
html file in the explorer panel and select live preview, show preview. When you update an html file, you immediately notice the changes
in visual studio code. In this video, I will demonstrate
how to create a CSS file and style some html elements. Before I start styling elements, let's create a simple html
document named index.html. To demonstrate how CSS works,
I will use an example created previously. Next I create a file named style.CSS. For my web page to use the CSS file, I need to link it to the head
element of the html file. To link to a style sheet, you use the link tag which must be
assigned to attributes rel and h ref. The rel attribute is
assigned to style sheet and the href attribute is assigned to
the name of the style sheet file. In this example, it's style.CSS. I am now ready to apply CSS to
the index.html file using style rules that I will write
in the style.CSS file. The selector I'm creating applies
the CSS rule to all h1 elements. This type of selector is
called an html type selector. The properties in the declaration
block allow me to change how the selected elements are displayed. For example, I'm setting the color property of all the
h1 elements to display text and purple. I save the file using Ctrl nd S, notice
that this change occurs immediately, and there is no need to
refresh the webpage. So now what if I want to only
style a single h1 element? I can add an ID attribute to
the tag h1 that I want to style. And in my CSS file,
I create a rule for that ID. Let's do that now. First, I create an ID rule using the hash
symbol and then the name header one. Then I define the CSS properties of that
rule to change the color value to green. I apply the rule and
save the file using Ctrl and S. Notice that the text for the heading,
chapter one on the web page turns green. You may be wondering, why does the first CSS rule not
apply to the h1 element with the ID? This is because of something called
CSS precedents and specificity. This is a complex statement, but basically the browser will use the most
precise selector for an html element. CSS has a set of hierarchy rules
which dictate which rule will apply to an element. In this example, the ID rule takes precedence over
the html type selector rule. You can learn more about
CSS selector rules and precedents from the additional
reading at the end of this lesson. Congratulations, you have now learned
about the selection and styling in CSS. Let's quickly recap. After choosing a selector for your styles, you create a declaration block using
opening and closing curly brackets. Inside of the code block,
you write a declaration which consists of a property value pair
ending in a semi colon. And all these parts together. The selector code block and
declaration make up a CSS rule. I encourage you to add some
CSS rules to your html documents to practice selecting and
styling.