By now, you should
be familiar with the concept of projects
and apps in Django. You also explored the core files that make up a Django project. In this video, you will
learn how to create your first Django project using the terminal and
the VS Code editor. You will also learn how to set up the development environment, by installing a
virtual environment, and you will explore
some common CLI commands used to create Django projects and launched the
development server. If you are a Python developer working on multiple projects, It's best practice to
keep your projects isolated in a
virtual environment, which you may be wondering
why you need to do this. Well, Django projects
can often be quite large and involve specific
dependencies for things like packages. For example you could have a package that has a dependency
on a specific version. You do not want this
conflicting with your other Python or
Django projects so it's best to keep your projects isolated using a virtual
development environment. Virtual environments
are isolated spaces you create to manage dependencies
and the overall project. This allows you to keep features
such as the interpreter, libraries and scripts isolated and installed for a
specific project. In addition to the
functionalities provided, Django also comes with an
integrated development server. This means that the
application has a request response
relationship with a client. Now that you are familiar
with the concept of the virtual development
environment and development server let's explore the steps involved in
creating a Django project. First, you create a
project directory. Next, you create a virtual environment for
your Django application. Then you create a Django project and finally run the Django
development server. Let's explore each of
these steps now in a little more detail using
some examples in VS Code. Your project is an
organizational unit that consists of settings
and database information. It can be stored anywhere on your development computer
but as a best practice, it's best to keep it in a sub-folder with all your
other Django applications. First, open a new terminal
by choosing terminal, new terminal from the top menu. Next, create a new
directory by using the make directory
command and then give your directory a name
like build Django. Then enter inside this directory using the change
directory command. Next, you need to set up the virtual environment
to do this, type Python 3-m and then venv. Then give the
virtual environment a name such as tutorial-env. Once you are finished,
press "Enter." If you open the directory
structure in VS Code, notice that some new files
have been generated. Now you need to activate the virtual environment
type source and the path from where
you can activate it, which is tutorial-env, then activate and press "Enter." Notice that the
virtual environment is activated by the round brackets
suffix in the terminal. Once the virtual environment
package is installed, you are ready to install Django, and you do this by using the
command pip3 install Django. To make sure that
Django is installed, you can run the command
Python3 -m Django version. Notice that the current
version is 4.1. Once this is set up, you are ready to
create a project, and you do this by running Django's built-in
command line tools. Type Django admin, start project, and then
give the project a name. In this example, it's
shifts table finally, press "Enter" to
run the command. If you expand the
directory structure again, notice that the shifts table is created with supportive
Django specific files. Once your Django
project is created, you need to launch the
development server. Before you do this, it's
important to be aware of the manage.py file that is automatically created
with the project. Recall that manage.py is a command line utility that works like the Django
admin command. You can replace the
Django admin command with manage.py as it uses
the project settings. To launch the development
server you can run the run server command using
the manage.py command. You will learn more about how
to work with Django admin, and manage.py commands later. Notice that a URL is generated. If you're on Mac, you can click on this URL to
open it in a browser Window. If you're on Windows, you will need to copy and
paste it to your browser. Notice that the terminal
gives us an option to press control C to
stop our server. It's important to note that
virtual environments and development servers are
extensive topics by themselves, and you will learn more about
them later in this course. You can even omit the use
of a virtual environment if you wish but this
is not recommended. In this video, you
learned how to create your first project in Django
using the terminal VS Code, and Django is built-in
command line tools.