You've already learned
that Django projects can get quite large. I understand that for
an aspiring developer, it's easy to get intimidated as Django projects can
have many moving parts. In this video, I'll give
you a broad overview and demonstrate how Django organizes
a project using models, views, and templates, commonly known as the MVT architecture. Don't worry if you don't fully understand all the
concepts in this video, as you'll be learning
all about them soon. Instead, please focus
on the concept that the data logic and display are separated in the
Django framework. You can even think of this video as a sneak peek into the future of how developers use the Django framework in
back-end development. Previously, I created a
folder called building MVT. If I expand it, notice
that I've created a virtual environment
called tutorial EMV. I also created a project called chefsTable and install
Django in that project. Inside the chefsTable
project notice that I created an app
called littleLemon. I notice that Django has
automatically created the associated files for
the project and the app. Before I demonstrate the files
of the MVT architecture, I first need to update
the URLs dot py file in two places so that Django can match the different URLs
to the correct view. In these files have added the URLs that will invoke
the view functions. Now I will demonstrate
the concept of the MVT architecture by
using three examples. The first example will
contain only views. Next will be an example
containing models and views. Finally, there'll be an example with models, views,
and templates. Let's begin with
the first example that only contains the view. If you open the file views.py. Notice it contains
a Python function that sends some data to a webpage that runs on the development server
on a local host. In this example, the data returned is the text
''Hello World.'' Let me demonstrate this now by launching the
development server. I open the URL in the browser and notice the text
''Hello World'' displays. Let me close the browser
window and quit the server. For the second example, I've made some code
changes to demonstrate how views can work with the models. Notice that I created another function in
the views.py file. This function
communicates with a model to retrieve data stored
in a database table, and then dynamically returns
it to the web browser. Let's now explore how a
model communicates with the database and open
the models.py file. Notice that this code contains a Python class which represents
a table in the database. Each of the variables created acts like a column
in that table. If you're familiar
with the concept of relational databases, you might wonder how
this is possible. For now, just know that
Django maps the code in the class to a
corresponding table stored in the database. Let me run the server again. This time, when I go to the URL, the output will
display the text, ''Pasta: Type of
Italian cuisine.'' Django dynamically
fetch the texts from a database table based on the numerical value,
certainly URL. This corresponds to some
entry in the table. At the moment it has
the value of one. If I change this from 1-2, notice that different texts
is output to the browser. This is possible
because of the logic created in the views.py file. For the final example, I need to modify
the view to return a template I created
inside the app folder. Notice that if I
expand this folder, it consists of a file
called menu_card.html. The file contains
three HTML elements with some basic styling. In this final example, I have not made any other
changes except adding a template and modifying
the views.py file. If I open the webpage again
and refresh the page, the output will display with
the HTML and CSS applied. The format and style
will be applied to all the pages where
I've made the changes. It's important to note that while this output
may seem basic, the concept is very powerful. By splitting the data, logic, and display into M, V, and T developers can rapidly create large-scale
data-driven applications. The MVT architecture allows developers to easily
update the database, logical code, presentation, and styling to create
dynamic web applications. While the number of
files present and sign your project folder
may seem intimidating. You'll explore these
files when you need them throughout the
remainder of this course. As I said at the
start of this video, you will soon explore this MVT
concept in greater detail. It's also worth remembering
you're already familiar with the code you'll be dealing
with as it's primarily Python. In this video, you learned how Django influence the model, view, and template
or MVT architecture.