As an aspiring developers
starting a new web project, it can sometimes be confusing to understand why the project is structured in the way it is. As a result, solid
understanding of a web framework and its
core concepts is essential. In this video, you will learn to describe a web
framework and list the benefits of using the Django framework to build
back-end web applications. You will also
explore the concept of the three-tier architecture. Frameworks are
designed to support the developer in building
the web application. The purpose of a web
framework is to make application development
easier and to provide the developer with a clean
structure that keeps things in order and allows for
changes and modifications. Frameworks also allow for code reusability facilitated
by existing code. When building a web application, it's important to
understand that many different pieces
and components exist. For example, you can
build a static website with just some HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript. However, suppose you want to add e-commerce functionality
such as a shop. In that case, you will have to implement things
like user sign-in, payment transactions,
security performance, and deal with data being
posted from web forms. This will require
your application to split into two parts, the front-end and the back-end. Recall that the front
end is the part of the website the user interacts
with via the web browser, and the back-end is
the part that runs on a web server and usually
contains the database. If your website requires functionalities
such as e-commerce, site users, payment processing, and data stored in a database, it will most likely
need a back-end, more specifically, a back-end application to manage
that back-end. When choosing a framework
to build the back-end, there are many options
to choose from. These frameworks all share
the common goal of providing features to create a web application with
a good structure. If it helps, you can think
of the framework the same way you would think of a foundation to build a house. You always need to start
with a solid foundation. Without it, the house is not
going to be very stable. Web frameworks are
precisely the same. They provide a solid
foundation to build upon. One of the most
popular is Django. Django is a high-level free, open source Python
web framework that encourages rapid development
and clean pragmatic design. It's built by experienced
developers and takes care of many of the tasks associated with web development, allowing you to focus on writing your app without needing
to reinvent the wheel. Let's explore some
of the benefits of using the Django framework. This includes speed, features,
security, and scalability. According to the developers
of Django themselves, Django is ridiculously
fast and speeds up the process by reducing the
amount of code to be written. This means that you
can take applications from concept to completion
as quickly as possible. Django is feature-rich and
includes many right out of the box features
that you can use to handle common web
development tasks. These include tasks such
as user authentication, content administration,
sitemaps, and RSS feeds. Django is very secure and helps developers avoid many
common security mistakes. It provides a secure layer
of internal middleware that protects it from common attacks attempting to steal information. Finally, Django is
highly scalable. It allows data to be
stored on other servers than the one in use without too many changes
in configuration. This provides
flexibility and speed, and as a result, some of the busiest sites on the web leverage Django is ability to quickly
and flexibly scale. Now you have a
basic understanding of what a web framework is and why the Django framework is a popular choice for
application development. Let's explore its structure
by learning about something known as the
three-tier architecture. Architecture refers to the
fundamental structures of a software system. Modern applications
tend to be built in what is called the
three-tier architecture. This is a modular
based approach to client-server
architecture that splits the application into
three logical parts, a presentation tier and application tier,
and a data tier. Let's examine each
of these parts now in a little more detail. The presentation tier is the
layer the users primarily interact with through user
interfaces from their desktop, laptop, or mobile devices. It's commonly built with a UI framework or library
such as React from Mehta, and it communicates
with the other tiers by sending results through
the application interface. The data tier
usually consists of database servers for storing
and retrieving information. A dynamic website needs to be able to store
and retrieve data. A database is the best
choice as it stores data in tables or objects depending on
the choice of database. The application tier is what
ties in the other two tiers. It gets data from the presentation layer and
persisted in the data tier. It's important to note that these parts are logical
enough physical, meaning, you can have all three tiers running
on the same web server. In this video, you learned about web frameworks and why Django is a popular choice
for developers to build back-end
web applications. You also explored the concept of the three-tier architecture for building web applications.