Congratulations, you've
completed this module on an introduction to Django. In this module, you were
given a course introduction. Then you learned about
projects and apps, admin and structures, and
finally about web frameworks. It's now time to recap
the key points and concepts you learned and
the skills you gained. You began the module by
exploring what Django is. You can now identify the
problems that Django solves, especially for
building projects that require high volumes
of text content, media files, and heavy traffic. You can also provide examples of where Django is used
in the real-world. For example, developers can create a backend framework with Django that can connect to a frontend framework via an API. Next, you were then introduced to the project creation process. You can now create a project in VS Code using Windows or Linux. Secondly, you learned
about projects and apps. You should now be able to explain the core concepts
of projects and apps, emphasize the importance
of structuring a project to make your
development process easier, and get a default web
project up and running. You also learned about following best practices to develop
projects in a structured way. This includes the don't repeat yourself,
DRY, principles. Write it once, but
use it many times. Thirdly, you explored
admin and structures. In this section, you
learned to discuss both Django admin and
manage.py commands as options for command
line utility to perform administration tasks and how they are used in the creation
of projects and apps. You can unpack the key
differences between projects and apps
and how they can be used together
and you learned how to create an app inside
an existing project. Lastly, you focused
on web frameworks. You now know that
frameworks are designed to support you in building
web applications. It helps the development team
to follow best practices. You understand that
a framework is a solid foundation upon which you build
your applications. The purpose of a web
framework is to make application development
easier and to provide the developer with a clean
structure that keeps things in order and allows for
changes and modifications. Frameworks also allow for code reusability facilitated
by existing code. You've learned about the
different pieces and components that exist when
building web applications, and that modern
applications are usually built using the
three-tier architecture. You explored Django
structures that take care of many web
development tasks. These structures
allow you to focus on writing your app without
needing to reinvent the wheel. Recall the benefits of
using the Django framework, including speed, features,
security, and scalability. You also learned how Django implements the model
view and templates or MVT architecture and
that's splitting the data, logic and display into M, V, and T rapidly creates large-scale data-driven
web applications. Now, you can show the M, V, T pattern while prioritizing
the reusability of code. You learn to create an app inside an existing
Django project, whereby the app
contains a view to output texts to the homepage
of the web application. What a great start to your
Django development journey. You are now familiar
with the differences between project
structure and apps. The Django admin and manage.py commands the MVT framework and creating an app inside an existing project using the correct
structure. Well done.