You've reached the end of this Django
course brought to you by Meta. You've worked hard to get here and developed a lot of new
skills along the way. You're making great progress
on your Django journey and you should now understand the principles
of web application development with the Django framework. You were able to demonstrate some of this
learning along with your practical Django skill set in the course assignment
by creating a prototype for the Little Lemon website. Following your completion of this course,
you should now be able to design a Django web application
using Python, HTML and CSS. Evaluate interactive design
using design methodologies and best practice principles. And describe and implement
the HTTP request response cycle by creating views, routes and templates. You should also be able to describe and
build a data model, to create database tables and
dynamic web forms. Explore the Django template language
to create dynamic web pages that display data stored in a database. And create, share and test your
web application by using industry standard best practice and guidelines. The key skills measured in the graded
assessment revealed your competency in those topics. So what are the next steps, this Django course has given you an
initial introduction to several key areas. You probably realize that there's
still more for you to learn. So if you found this course helpful and
want to discover more, then why not register for the next course. Whether you're just starting out as
a technical professional, a student or a business user, the course in projects
proves your knowledge of the value and capabilities of the Django framework. The final assignment consolidates your
abilities with the practical application of your skills in Django. But it also has another important benefit. It means that you'll have a real
design that you can reference within your portfolio. This serves to demonstrate your
skills to potential employers. And not only does it show employers that
you are self-driven and innovative, but it also speaks volumes about you as an
individual as well as your newly obtained knowledge. And once you've completed all the courses, you'll receive a Meta Backend
developer certificate. Thank you, it's been a pleasure to embark
on this journey of discovery with you. Best of luck in the future.