Congratulations on
making it this far. You now know about
working with databases, writing your backend application using Django and creating APIs, as well as front
end applications. Now it's time to learn
about deployment in server and Serverless
Cloud computing. First step in the
deployment process, to run a production
application in the Cloud, you need one or
multiple servers to upload your application and
link them to your domain. This process of
uploading code and data to the servers
is called deployment. Some people use
manual deployment, while others use
automated deployment. With the manual method, you need to manually upload everything using File
Transfer Protocol, FTP, Secure File
Transfer Protocol, SFTP, or tools like rsync. However, automatic
deployments are easier. If deployment is
properly configured with a version control
system and build tools. It starts when the
developer make some changes and pushes
code to the repository. The build tools receive
the signal and create a build environment identical to the production environment. It runs the test to ensure everything in your code
is working correctly. If everything is okay, the build tools
connect to the server where your files will stay
and upload your code. There are two essential terms
involved in deployment, Continuous Integration, or CI, is the process of imitating the development
environment and then running the test to
ensure your code is okay. The uploading process is called continuous deployment
or continuous delivery or CD for short. These are often used together. A typical workflow of CI/CD
involves these steps; code, version control, build, test, and deploy. Tools that you can use for
these steps are Jenkins, CircleCI, and
GitHub's CI actions. But if no test
runner is involved, it's only continuous deployment. Let's move on to hosting
your application. To host your code and database, you need to follow one of two approaches,
server or serverless. The word serverless
suggests that no physical servers
are involved, but that's not accurate. Both methods require
physical servers, but the deployment process makes them significantly
different from each other and both have their advantages
and disadvantages. Let's examine those. First is the server approach. Hosting companies sell
two types of servers, dedicated and virtual servers. Each layer of your
application is hosted on one or
multiple servers. A dedicated server is a computing unit available
for only your use. You have full access
to this unit and can add RAM and storage
whenever necessary. However, only some applications need lots of memory
and computing power. Some can run with just a
few megabytes or gigabytes of RAM and one or
two processor cores. In such a case, a dedicated
server doesn't make sense because the remaining resources stay idle and you
waste money on bills. This is where the virtual
servers come into play. Using hypervisor software, the dedicated
server is virtually split into multiple servers or virtual machines separate
from each other. You can assign fixed
resources to each of these servers or
allow them to work in a relatively shared
fashion where they can occasionally access extra resources that
are sitting idle. An advantage is that you can configure each
virtual server with different operating systems and tools as they will not
conflict with each other. One virtual server can host the application code while another deals with the database. The disadvantage
is that you have to manage everything
by yourself, which can be tedious
and time-consuming, this is where serverless
is different. With a serverless approach, you don't have to
configure anything, not for storage CPU or creating
a production environment, and not even for
memory allocation. The advantage is that
everything is there and properly managed by the
serverless provider. A serverless provider is closely integrated with the
version control system. Whenever you push code, the serverless providers
starts working automatically. It builds the code,
runs the tests, deploys your code and their
servers and provides you with a URL to access the hosted
application and database. You don't manage or configure any servers and you don't
have to worry about loads, you just push your code and
access the application. For this reason, this approach
is called serverless. Serverless providers take care of everything and
ensure your application is up and running
correctly and they charge you by the amount
of computing power, memory, storage, and bandwidth
your application consumes. But since serverless
bills by usage, any unmonitored consumption can cause a big spike
in monthly bills. Another disadvantage is that when you use
serverless providers, you are locked to the vendors environment
and conventions. Serverless vendors do not adhere to universal
code requirements. Moving apps to another vendor
require some code changes. In this video, you learned about continuous integration and
continuous deployment. You also learned how to
host your application in the Cloud using server or
serverless technology. This knowledge will help you
to make your future apps available to the public or
authorized people only.