Now that you have an idea of what application deployment is, let's dive deeper into virtual
servers and containers. Both technologies
are used to host your applications and run them
isolated from each other, but they work very differently. First is hypervisors, which are software used for
virtualization. As you learned in
the previous video, a dedicated server can be split into multiple
virtual servers, also called virtual machines or VMs using hypervisor technology. Each of the virtual servers runs separate operating systems and applications and each works like an
individual computer. As such, they have dedicated IP addresses to communicate
with each other. There are primarily two types of hypervisors involved in
creating virtual machines. One is a Type 1 hypervisor
or bare-metal hypervisor. The second one is a
Type 2 hypervisor. The Type 1 hypervisors are a software layer that works directly with server hardware, and because of this, they are more efficient when it comes to resource management. Setting up a Type 1 hypervisor
is a complex process, but applications running on a Type 1 hypervisor are usually faster because they have dedicated resources
assigned to them. KVM is one of the most widely used Type 1 hypervisors and
it's open source. On the other hand,
a Type 2 hypervisor works mostly on top of an operating system and is usually slower than Type 1, but managing a Type 2
hypervisor is simpler than a Type 1 hypervisor because they come with a simpler
management console, and you don't have to
directly deal with the hardware for
Type 2 hypervisors. Oracle VirtualBox is one of the most popular and widely
used Type 2 hypervisors. It's open-source software
and available for free. Let's move on to
resource sharing and how that works with
virtual servers. Virtual machines can
be configured to use dedicated computing
resources or share them. For example, a dedicated server with three terabytes of storage, 12 gigabytes of RAM, and six processing
cores can provide its resources entirely to whichever virtual
machine might need it. Alternatively, it can
be configured to split its resources equally between
all virtual machines. If there are three
virtual machines, each of them can use one
terabyte of storage space, four gigabytes of RAM, and two processor cores. But take note, while dedicated resources
ensure availability, they can also sit idle
and lead to wastage. Say, for example, each virtual server gets a
dedicated four gigabytes, but a smaller
application hosted on one of them only
requires one gigabyte. A considerable amount
of memory remains idle, the same goes for
the CPU and storage. Since these resources
are dedicated, other virtual machines
cannot access these resources even
when they are free. On the other hand,
what if you have a single dedicated machine, but you need more resources
than it can offer? This is where shared
virtual machines come in. They can use the resources
assigned to them, and they can also use extra resources from shared
machines when it's available. However, such usage is monitored and continuous
over-usage is considered abuse
and it can lead to termination of the server if it's happening with
a public provider. Now, let's move on
to containerization. It takes time to set up
and configure whether a Type 1 or Type 2
hypervisor is used, and you also need to install an operating system
on a virtual machine. What if you can remove hardware and the
operating system from the equation and focus only on your application
and its dependencies? This undoubtably makes things easier and you can spend
more time on development, that's what
containerization is for. Containerization
technologies help you pack your application and
their dependencies into container image files. This enables you to run them as containers using a
container engine, regardless of the operating
systems or hardware. A container can pack single or multiple applications
with all dependencies, or you can distribute your applications across
multiple containers and configure them to correctly work together using a container
engine like Docker. For efficient management, you
should keep your containers lean and stick to one process or application
per container. Since container engines abstract the operating system layer, and containers don't run
their own operating system, they are smaller in size, run faster, and are more manageable than
virtual machines. Containers are also very portable and you can
deploy them quickly. Docker is one of
the most popular and widely used
container engines and it's available for free. There are a few terms you need to know about
when dealing with containers like pod,
cluster, and node. Let's explore the meaning
of these and other terms. When a group of tightly
coupled containers share the same resource and work together to solve a
particular problem, it's called a pod, and the physical or virtual
machine that runs one or multiple pods
is called a node. Whereas multiple pods
and multiple nodes, which could be
related to each other or work completely
independently, are called a cluster. Finally, there's the management,
deployment, networking, and scaling of these containers known as container
orchestration. Kubernetes or K8s is one of the most popular and widely used container
orchestration solutions used by developers worldwide. Hosting your application
can be challenging. In this video, you learned about technologies used to host your
application in the Cloud. You learned about different
virtualization tools to create virtual
servers or machines. You also learned
about containers, which can pack your application and all its
dependencies together. Finally, you learned some key terms used in the
world of containerization. You are now well placed to successfully host your
applications in the Cloud.