Hello and welcome to this
course on API development. Nearly all of us have
interacted with an API before, even if we don't know it. If you've checked the weather on your phone or if you've
ordered food online, then you relied on an API
to give you access to another app's functionality or to retrieve information for you. In fact, most of today's web applications
rely on APIs to work. An API or Application Programming
Interface is a gateway to back-end data. APIs allow different
apps and services to exchange information or allow
access to functionality, and as the use of mobile and other
technologies increases, so too does the demand for APIs. This means that learning
how to create and use APIs may be invaluable to you
and your developer journey. In this course, you'll
learn about the tools and resources available to you
to create and use APIs. To start off, you'll
learn more about how APIs are used
in the real-world. Then you'll have an opportunity to reflect on what
you hope to learn. The course syllabus, and how to be successful
in this course. After this, there's
a short refresher on how HTTP and HTTPS work, including HTTP
methods, requests, responses, and status codes. Before moving on to rest APIs. You will learn how to set up Visual Studio Code and configure it with all the
necessary extensions, and you'll also learn how to use a packaging tool like pip envy. When it comes to rest APIs, you will learn about their
key characteristics, benefits, states,
and resource types, as well as the API
requests to life cycle. You'll also learn about
the principles of authentication in a rest API, and what the differences between authentication and
authorization, and you'll have an opportunity
to create routes with the correct naming
conventions when you create your own API and
organize an API project. In the second week,
you will learn how to install and set up Django Rest framework, or DRF. Following this, you
will also learn how to use function and class based views to create
API endpoints efficiently. You will enrich your
knowledge of serialized and gain insight into how to
convert and validate your data. You'll learn how to
map user input to database models using
deserialization, as well as how to
use throttling and caching to optimize
and protect your API. In the third week,
you will learn how to control access to your APIs and put systems in place to ensure you
maintain their health. Lastly, you'll have an opportunity to complete
the graded assessment, which is the little lemon
restaurant API project. You'll get an opportunity
to provide feedback on your classmates'
projects as well since this is a
peer-reviewed assignment. If you've encountered new
technical words and this video, don't worry if you don't
fully understand them now. Everything you need will be
covered during your learning with each lesson made
up a video content, readings, and quizzes. There are many videos
in the course that will gradually guide you towards your goal of becoming
a developer. Watch, pause, rewind, and re-watch the videos until you are confident
in your skills. Then consolidate your
knowledge by consulting the course readings and
putting your skills into practice during
the course exercises. Along the way, you'll
encounter several knowledge quizzes where you can
self-check your progress. Remember, you're not alone and considering a career
as a developer, which is why you'll also
work with course discussion prompts that help you to
connect with your classmates. It's a great way to
share knowledge, discuss difficulties, and grow a network of contacts and
the development world. To be successful in this course, it is helpful to commit to a regular and disciplined
approach to learning. Although it is an online
self-paced course, you need to be serious about your studies and, if possible, map out a study
schedule with dates and times that you can devote
to attending the course. In summary, this course
provides you with a complete introduction
to API development and will set you on your way toward professional certification and a career in API development. Be sure to also check out the other courses in
this learning path. Looking forward to working with you on your
learning journey.