In the world of web
application development, application requirements
constantly change and it's a developer's job
to implement these changes. For example, a common task is to alter the data model
of the application. To do this in Django, you use something
called migrations. In this video, you
will learn about migrations in Django and how developers use them
to make changes to the models representing
the database schema. Recall that Django is
designed to work with a relational database management
system like PostgreSQL, MySQL, or SQLite, and in a relational database, data is organized in tables. By now, you know that
you can use models to represent data tables
stored in the database. Recall that when using models, Django provides many methods that allow you to add, update, and delete data
right from the code without having to write SQL. This is made possible by
using something called an object-relational
mapper, or ORM. You will learn more
about this later. For now, just know that it maps the relational database to objects represented
as Django models. The models define the
database fields which correspond to the columns in their associated
database tables. For example, if you have
a model called User, you know it will represent
a table called User and each attribute of the model has a column representation
in the database. In the Python code, if the user class has an
attribute of first_name, the table will have a
column of first_name. It's common that during the life cycle of the
development of the application, changes to the structure of the database or schema
will be required. For example, the
initial model may need to be extended with
additional attributes. This means adding
a new attribute, which will add a new column from the perspective
of the database. Or, suppose you need to
perform a different operation, like changing a column name
or even deleting a model. For these operations to work, Python uses something
called database migrations. Migrations are how Django
records changes made to models and implements
these changes to the database schema. Migrations are tied into
Django models and stored as migration files in a Migrations
folder inside each app. You will learn more about
migration storage later. For now, let's explore
how migrations work and return to the example
of the Users table. Suppose you wanted
to add a new column called City to the User table. Without an ORM like the
one Django provides, a developer must login to the database and run a
SQL alter statement. You may recall that you can
use the alter statements to alter a specific table to add a column of whatever
type is required. When the statement runs, the User table updates with
another column called City. In Django, the User table is created using a
model which you may recall is a class-based
representation of the User table
in the database. So instead of writing
the SQL query, you only need to add
the new attribute to the model then run the migration scripts to
implement the changes. Once the migration scripts run, the changes are applied. Let's explore the
process of running the migration script
a little further now. Django provides a list of CLI commands that allows you
to apply the migrations. First, you must create a migration script and
then apply the migrations. The migration script is a set of instructions on what models to create against the database. You apply the change
to the model, run the migration file, and Django will take
care of the rest. You do not need to write any SQL as the application
handles everything. Later in this lesson, you will learn
more about running a migration script and
applying it to the database. For now, let's focus
on some of the reasons developers use migrations
instead of SQL. You may wonder why you need migrations when it
appears straightforward to just run a SQL query like the earlier example
to update a table. Migrations do more than just
implement SQL commands. They can help with
syncing issues, version control, and
database maintenance. It's good to think
of migrations as a version control system
for your database schema. Let's explore some of those
benefits in more detail now, beginning with syncing issues. With migrations, you
have less possibility of syncing issues between
what the model has and what the
database contains. When working in a team, each developer usually
has their own local copy of the database so they can
code and test against it. Migration scripts are kept
in the code repository. When a developer on the
team makes changes, they run the migration
script to update their local copy of database
to the latest version. Next is version control. All the changes are kept
in version control, which provides an entire history of changes across
the application. Developers can also use this to determine what changes have
been added and by whom. Generally in application
development, the more you can track changes
that occur in the app, the fewer problems
you will encounter. The alternative is running scripts in the
database directly, which is usually more problematic as it is
outside version control. The last benefit of using migrations is the
ease of maintenance. Along with helping syncing
issues and version control, maintaining all the
database changes from the code base makes it easier
for the development team. They don't have to
worry about creating SQL queries directly against the database or where to store these files so all the
developers can run them. In this video, you learned about migrations in Django and how developers use them
to make changes to the models representing
the database schema.