By now, you are familiar with
the basics of creating a model and performing migrations. Let's build upon your understanding of
models by connecting to another model using a one to many relationship. In this video, you will explore an example of using
foreign keys as a field inside the model. In Django, foreign key is an ORM field
representing a database table column. You use it to create the relationships
between tables in your database. Imagine the scenario of building an online
menu for the Little Lemon restaurant. The solution begins with creating a table
to add the menu items for the web page. Now, Little Lemon is a restaurant
that offers many cuisines. In placing each cuisine item in its
correct category requires some skill. To do this successfully, start by
creating another model for categories and assign the different categories
to each of the menu items. Now, let's explore how to do
this by using a one to many relationship through
foreign keys in Django. Let's begin by selecting
the models.py file. Here, you need to create two models. The first model is for the menu category
and the second model is for the menu. Later you will add subcategories
in the menu category and use the foreign key to
reference these categories. It's important to know that adding both
models is done the same way as adding models independently. Now, for the first model add an attribute
called MenuCategory name and save the file. Next create a second model called menu. Within this model, add the menu_item,
name, price and category_id. The next step is to assign
a Charfield to the menu item and an Integerfield to the price. Let's explore where to
add the foreign key. Write the models.ForeignKey
command in the category_id. Inside the foreign key
are two required fields. The first field is the class for
the model to connect to. And the second field is the settings
that enables on delete. So it's defined as on delete
equal to models.PROTECT. Additionally, add another
argument called default=none. The next step includes updating
the admin.py file by actioning the required imports. Next, it's time to register the models. Note, that the utility becomes more
evident later in the Django admin lesson. For now, ensure that the settings.py file
in the app configuration is updated. Go ahead and run the server,
followed by performing the migrations. Notice that the output includes
two models that are migrated. Finally, run the command
python3 manage.py migrate. The next step is to check the database. So go to db.sqlite3, Right Click and select Open Database, scroll down to SQLITE EXPLORER and select myapp_menu. For this example, assume that there
are entries added to the database. Now, open the database again
under myapp_menu categories, the ID lists 1, 2, and
3 as Italian, Greek, and Turkish. Now, visit myapp_menu and
notice that there is a fourth field called category_id_id. This field has ID numbers that
match the respective categories in the myapp_menu table. For example,
Greek salad is listed as id2 and in the myapp_menu category,
the category name is Greek. The idea of the menu is referenced and corresponds with the ID
listed in the menu category. Now, let's make this more intuitive
by adding another attribute called related_name= and assign it
the valued labeled category_name. This means that the myapp_menu now lists the category name instead
of category_id_id. This is noticeable when
running migrations again, the failed category on
the menu is altered. Notice that with
delete.=models.protect selected. No menu items will be removed with
any category that is deleted in the category table. In this video, you learned how to
implement a one to many relationship using foreign keys in Django models.