If you are building a
dynamic application using a web framework, data storage, using a
database is essential. Recall that the
presentation layer is the layer that the
user interacts with. Any data posted from the
presentation layer needs to be persisted and also kept for
retrieval for later use. For example, if the website
requires user login, it will need to keep track
of who users are and what data they are entitled
to view, edit, and create. The solution is to use a model. The object equivalent of a
database table used in Django and acts as a single
definitive source of information about your data. In this video, you will further
explore the model part of the MVT architectural
pattern and learn how Django uses modular classes and methods to perform
crud operations. If you are a developer on the
back end of an application, working with databases can be achieved in one of two ways. The first way is to
work directly in the database to create
the required tables. Then in your application, you would need to create custom queries written
in the Structured Query Language or SQL to
store and retrieve the data. The second way is
to use a framework. You've already learned
that frameworks are designed to assist developers by providing them with
a platform for rapid development and
one-way developers can speed up their
development is by using models to interact
with the database. A model is the single
definitive source of information about your data. It contains the essential fields and behaviors of the
data you're storing. Generally, each model maps
to a single database table. Models are an integral part
of the Django framework. Let's explore the structure
in a little more detail now. Each model is a
Python class that subclasses
django.db.models.model. Each attribute of the model
represents a database field. This means that instead
of having to write a custom query for adding and retrieving database records. You can use a model
to do it instead. Django gives you an
automatically generated database access API to access the
database with Python code. Essentially, you can
think of a model as a Python object and models
help developers create, read, update, and
delete objects, commonly called the
crud operations. You will learn more about these crud operations in
Django in just a few moments. But before you do this, let's explore a scenario to
create a table called user, starting with SQL syntax and
then using Django models. You may recall that to create a table in a database using SQL, you would need to write a query using the create table syntax. When the code runs,
a table called user will be created
with three columns, ID, first name, and last name. To do this using a
model in Django, you define a class that will subclass the
django.db.models.model. You may notice that the ID or a primary key is not
specified in the class. This is because Django
automatically adds it, but you can override
it if needed. At this point, it's important to know that you cannot create a database table by only defining a model
class in Python. To complete this process, you need to use something called migrations and you will learn more about how
they work later. Now you know about
the concept of models in Django
and that they can be used to replace SQL operations to
access and manage data. Let's explore how you
can use models and their associated methods to
perform crud operations. Django automatically provides all these methods
out of the box. Let's begin with creation. You may recall that
creating records in SQL requires you to use
the insert statement. For example, to create a
new user in the user table. In Django, creating records
requires you to create a new object from the class user and then persisted using
the save function. Next is read, in SQL to retrieve information, you need to write a SQL query
using the select statement, for example, to
retrieve a user from the user table whose
ID is equal to one. In Django, you can use the get method which
is bound to the user. objects. Next is update. Suppose you have a table
of users with a user named John Jones
with the ID of one. You want to update the
user's last name to Smith. In SQL, you use the
update statement to update an existing
record in a database. To achieve the same
result in Django, you use the methods
get and save. The code works by checking
if a user exists with the ID of one and then updates the user's
last name to Smith. Finally, let's explore delete. With SQL, the
delete statement is required to delete
records in the database. For example, you can
delete a user based on a value such
as ID equals one. To achieve the same
result with Django, you use the delete method. It's important to note that
these are only some of the many methods Django provides when
working with models. As an aspiring developer, it's a good idea to familiarize yourself with the ones
mentioned in this video. In this video, you learned
about the model part of the MVT architectural
pattern and how Django uses classes
and methods to perform crud operations when working
with database tables.