By now, you should be familiar
with the concepts of models and how they're used to represent
a table in the database. In this video, you'll learn how to
create a model in the Models.py file. Okay, so I'm in VS Code and I've already created a project called
menu project and an app called menuapp. To build a model, I write code in the
Models.py file, so let me open that now. Notice that there's already a comment
that says create the models, so I will add the code under it. For this example, suppose I'm building
a menu for the little lemon restaurant. First I create a class name Menu and
pass the model into it. Inside the class,
I will create three variables. The first variable is
the name of the item, the second variable is cuisine and
the third variable is price. These are the attributes
inside the model and each of these attributes needs
a field of some data type. So I assigned a field by typing
models.CharField which is used for small to large size strings. I can also pass a perimeter such as max
length and assign a value like 100. I will repeat the same process for
the cuisine variable. For the price, I type models.IntegerField
which I can use to store an integer value. Notice that I don't have
to pass anything to it. Okay, that's all the code I
need to write for the model, now let me try accessing it. In the terminal, I type the command
python manage.py shell and press Enter. Notice that I enter the command
line tools of django. It's important to know that I cannot
directly access the class menu inside the shell. First, I have to import it from another
python file called models.py inside the menuapp folder. I do this with the import python
command where menuapp is the folder and models.py is the file. So from inside that I import the menu,
I press Enter and notice that I get an error. This is because I have not added
the model inside the settings.py file. So, let me open that file now and
add the model to the installed apps list. Okay, so once I've added the model
to the installed apps list, I need to perform something
called migrations. Don't worry too much about this step,
you'll learn all about migrations later. For now, just know that this is a command I need
to run to work with models in django. Notice that it creates a model,
menu and a python file. If you go to the python file, you can
see that django internally has created the columns and the table menu
using the built in SQLite database. To finish this step, I run another migration command by
typing python manage.py migrate. Okay, so now I'm ready to go
back inside the shell and work with the menu model I created,
let me first clear the terminal. I run the command python
manage.py shell and once inside I import the menu again,
this time notice I don't get an error. I can now run the command menu.objects.all
which returns all the entries in the database. Since I don't have any notice
that I get an empty query set. I will now directly add an entry in
the database using the command m equals Menu.objects.create. I enter the details that match
the attributes, so name equals pasta, cuisine equals Italian and
price equals 10. Notice that I've assigned
this entry to an object m. And that is so I can manipulate changes
on the objects such as updating or saving, I press Enter and
now I save this object. Now if I run the command to return all
the entries in the database again, notice that one entry
is inside the database. Okay, let me add one more entry quickly
and view the database entries again. Notice that there are two objects but this
is not very informative as only the names of the menu objects one and
two are displayed. Django provides a way to change this
using something called custom methods. For example, I can use one of the building
custom methods and customize the string. So let's say that I type self.name plus
str which represents a Dunder method that prints a string. I will save the file, once I do this I
must exit the shell and enter it again. Once inside the shell, I can write python
code exactly like I would write in a file. I import the menu class again and run
the command to display the items again. Notice that the details are printed in
line with the string Dunder method with a custom function I defined. Similar to this, I can create my own
custom functions that can be used. Now that I've demonstrated how to create
a database table and add entries to it, let me demonstrate how to update entries. Suppose I want to access an entry and
update it. To do this, I can use the get method and pass the primary key of value to
which refers to the entry of taco. Then I can assign this to
an object that I created called p. I can now access the attributes inside
this object just as I would in regular python code. Now I type p.cuisine equals and
a new value to update the entry. I save this and
this time when I display the entries, noticed that the value is updated. Another option to view and update the database is using your browser
to access the django admin portal. However, it's also important to understand
how the code works internally as I've demonstrated. This video was just to give you
an example of how you can use models. You'll learn more about migrations,
the admin profile and other features you can add using django
and python code within the models. In this video, you learned how to
create a model in the models.py file.