When building web applications,
developers use databases to store data and write sequel queries to fetch and manipulate that data as applications
grow in size and complexity. So too can the amount and complexity of
the SQL queries to assist developers, Django provides a feature known as
object relational mapping, ORM. That automatically creates the required
SQL queries in this video, you will learn about object
relational mapping and how Django uses it to create SQL
queries against the database. You will also explore
the QuerySet API and how developers use it to save and
retrieve data in the database. One of the earlier challenges of object
oriented programming languages used in web development included
the complexity of working with databases. Object relational mapping is
an abstraction layer created to facilitate interaction between the programming
language and databases. This allows programmers to use
the SQL databases without needing to write SQL queries, a structured
map is created internally by ORM. That generates SQL code for
a given relational database, by observing the changes
made to the data objects, ORM can be accessed by
using the shell command. Previously you may have noticed
how each row entry added for a given model creates an object,
you may recall the output had the prefects QuerySet, a QuerySet
is a collection of such objects. For a given model used in Django and
Django uses a QuerySet to retrieve and manipulate these objects from
the database, for example, suppose you have a model called customers. You can access the contents of this
model by running the command customer dot objects dot all this command
returns the output as a QuerySet. The list will contain the entries for the
different objects corresponding to the row entries in a database, for every
SQL query that can be constructed, there is a corresponding command. These commands are a part of
the QuerySet API, so for example, if you want to join multiple parameters
using the wear or limit clauses in SQL you can use the filter function and
pass the conditions to it as arguments. This will select the entry for customers
who have reserved a table for four people. Considering the variety of complex queries
that can be constructed in SQL, Django has several functions
that support these operations. They can be categorized as follows
based on the required logic to run on the QuerySet methods that
return new QuerySets, operators that return new QuerySets and
methods that do not return QuerySets. Let's now open V S code and explore
an example to interact with the database. Using these methods to return QuerySets, suppose the management staff at Little
Lemon wants to keep track of customers visiting the restaurant in the models.py file there is a model called customer. That consists of attributes such as name,
reservation day and the number of seats that
the customer has requested. This model has already been migrated and
the database contains some entries. To view the contents of the database,
click the SQL, Light Explorer and
select the customer table. Notice that the data is displayed
once the database has entries open the shell by typing python3
manage.py shell in the terminal, you may recall that once inside the shell. You first have to import the customer
class from the models.py file, so type from myapp.models import customer. Now let's explore an example of methods
that do not run a query string, let's use the customer dot
objects dot get method. Inside the parenthesis enter an i d,
value such as four, notice that the customer name is returned
corresponding to the I D of four. This method is similar to the select
statement that you use in SQL, next let's explore methods
that return new QuerySets. Using a filter function,
suppose you want to find reservations for a Saturday, use the method customer
dot objects dot filter and pass the reservation
day equal to Saturday. Make sure to use double quotes as
you are working with a string value, press enter and notice that the QuerySets
for James and Jacqueline are returned. The filter method is similar to the where
clause in SQL, let's say you change the day to friday and add another filter
method with a different condition set. The condition two seats equal four and
press enter, notice that only one
QuerySet is returned and this is because that is the only
QuerySet that meets both conditions. The AND operator used is similar to
the AND operator used in SQL, this operator is part of the QuerySets A P I that returns new QuerySets it's important to know that
the QuerySets API is a broad topic. If you would like to learn more about it,
there is a link to an additional reading at the end of this lesson, in this video,
you learned about object relational mapping and how Django uses it to create
SQL queries against the database. You also explored the QuerySet API and
how developers use it to save and retrieve data in the database.