In Python, you can access
different types of modules, such as built-in modules and user-defined modules from
different locations. Think of the built-in modules
as a house that you want to build using pre-built
and packaged floors, walls, and a roof that
you can just assemble. This means you don't have
to try and find hammers, bricks, plaster and towels
to build walls and floors. Saving you time and making
your work more efficient. Accessing built-in
and user-defined modules in Python works in the same way and helps to save time and build efficiency
while you're coding. Remember that any Python
file can be a module. The modules are searched by the interpreter and the
following sequence. First, the current
directory path. Second, the built-in
module directory. Third, the Python path environment variable with
a list of directories, and finally, it's investigates the installation dependent
default directory. Let's explore this
in greater detail. In this video, I'll
demonstrate how to access different
types of modules, such as the built-in modules and user-defined modules from
different locations. Let's write some
code and learn how to access some built-in modules. I begin by creating a new file called my calendar
in Visual Code. I then use the CIS
dots path function and return the value
that I get from it in a variable called locations. I finally print the values
using the print function. I now try running this code. Unfortunately, this
does not work as Python has no idea what CIS is. To resolve this,
I'm going to try and import the
built-in CIS function. I'm going to run the code again. The print function returns
all the possible locations that the interpreter
is going to look for when searching for modules, including the current
working directory. But this doesn't
look very clean. I know that I have
a list of values, so I'll run a for loop that loops through
every location in turn. This returns a much
cleaner results by printing each location on its
own line in the terminal. Now, it's always good
practice to import all the required modules
right at the beginning. But I can do this
in a different way. I'll import a module here
in the middle of the code. I'll import another built-in
module called calendar. I will now use a couple of functions that the calendar has. I will now use a function
called leap days, which has two inputs, year 1 and year 2, and it will be returning
another integer value. So what I'm going to do is
write the loop days function, write to input years and return the value in a variable
called leap days. I'm going to print the
value of a variable. I get a return value of 13, which means there
are 13 leap days in-between 2000 and 2050. Now, I'll use another function. This function is called easily. It takes one of the years as an input and returns
a Boolean value. It tells you if a given
year is a leap year. So let's try 2036 and return the value in another
variable called, is it leap? This time, I get
the value of true because 2036 is a leap year. If you decide to
explore a little bit, you can hover over calendar. If you use a MacBook, press the command key. Or if you're using Windows, press the Control key, which will take you
to the calendar file by clicking on it. Note how the calendar
module itself has imported a few
other modules, and other than that, it contains
all the functionalities. I now find the
location of calendar inside the Python 3.9 package, which is one of the locations
listed in the terminal by the print locations
loop I ran earlier. You just learned how to
access built-in modules and user-defined modules
from different locations. I encourage you to
start using modules in your code to make your
work more efficient.