In this video, I'll cover the reload function that's
used with import statements. The reload function reloads
an imported module in Python. The only precondition is that the argument passed
to it must be a module that has already been successfully imported
within the program. Previously, you learned how the import statement is only loaded once by the
Python interpreter, but the reload function lets you import and reload
it multiple times. I'll demonstrate that. First, I create a new file, sample.py, and I add a simple print
statement named "Hello world." Remember that any file in
Python can be used as a module. I'm going to use this file
inside another new file. The new file is named
using reloads.py. Now I import the
sample.py module. I can add the import
statement multiple times, but the interpreter
only loads it once. If it had been reloaded, we would have seen "Hello
world" several times. However, I can change this with the help of the
reload function. Let me remove this code and add the importLib module where
the reload function sits. Then I pass the module name as an argument to this function. Note that the sample module
has been imported more than once and I could do it
as many times as I want. Now to better demonstrate how the reload
function can be used, I'm creating another file
called filechanges.py. This file is going to list the contents of a
particular directory. In the following code, I'll
be updating the contents of the directory and
be able to monitor the changes using a file
that I will import. Since the interpreter
loads the file only once, the reload function
will allow us to reload that import and
effectively update the changes every time without stopping the execution
of running code. I begin by importing
the built-in OS module, and I use a function called
os.listdir inside it. Next, I pass the current path as an argument by right-clicking the Files tab at the top
and selecting Copy path. I paste this as an argument to the listdir function and
add an R before the path. Because I'm looking for a
directory and not a file, I remove filechanges.py
from here. I'll see if the output
from the listdir function into a variable called contents. On the next line, I add a print function for
the contents variable. Before running your program, I'll clear the terminal
to make things clear, the return value should list the files that are present
in a given directory. You'll notice that it in dirlist all the files present in
this directory were printed. I now go back to the reloads.py file, and I clear the file. Then I once again import
the importLib module. After this, I import file changes and create a
function called changes. As good practice, I add
a try-block and use the reload function to pass
filechanges as an argument. Let me go back to
the filechanges.py file and create a function that will print the
contents variable. This is now complete, but I add another print
statement for clarity. I save this file, and then I
go back to using reloads.py. I call this function that
I just created inside the filechanges module and because I want to make
a try-block work, I add the except and
just pass for now. After this, I execute the
code using a for-loop. Because I wanted to
do it more than once, I use the range function and call the function
that I just wrote. To take some control
of the program, I'll add an input
statement here. Now the program will execute
five times and every time it will load the file
changes module and list the contents
of the directory. To make it more interesting, I'm creating a few text
files inside the directory. Now I've returned to using the reloads.py file
to run this code. Note that the content of the current directory
is listed here, but I will now remove the
text file called text3.text. When I execute the code
again by hitting "Enter", you'll notice that
the particular text file has been removed. Now without changing
anything else, I'll execute the
rest of the code. If I also change the content of filechanges.py, for example, changing the print statement
before the file names, I can see the code reflected
after I press "Enter" again. As I demonstrated, the reload function can
be used for making dynamic changes within your code with the help of
import statements.