Let's explore how to use modules with the
import statement. I've already created a
file called imports.py. I'll now import the
built-in math module by typing import math. Just to make sure
that this code works, I'll use a print statement. I do this by typing print, importing the math module. After, this, I'll run the code. The print statement
has executed. Most of the modules that
you will come across, especially the built-in modules, will not have any
print statements, and they will simply be
loaded by the interpreter. Now that I've imported
the math module, I want to use a
function inside of it. Let's choose the square
root function, sqrt. To do this, I type
the words math.sqrt. When I type the word math, followed by the dot, a list of functions appears in a drop-down menu and you can
select sqrt from this list. I passed nine as the argument
to the math.sqrt function. Assign this to a variable called root, and then I print it. The number 3, the square root of nine has been printed
to the terminal, which is the correct answer. Instead of importing the entire math module as we did above, there is a better way to handle this by directly importing the square root function inside
the scope of the project. This will prevent overloading the interpreter by importing
the entire math module. To do this, I type
from math import sqrt. When I run this, it
displays an error. Now I remove the word math from the variable declaration
and I run the code again. This time it works. Next, let's discuss
something called an alias, which is an excellent way of
importing different modules. Here I sign an alias called
m to the math module. I do this by typing
import math as m. Then I type cosine equals
m. I then select cos, C-O-S from the
list of functions, after which I add the
number 0 in parentheses. On the next line, I'll print cosine, and then I run the code. The result is the cosine
value of zero, which is one. This is possible because
I used the alias called m. If I tried writing math.cos, it wouldn't work
because the math module is now recognized as m, instead. Let me remove this code from the screen and clear the
terminal before we continue. An alias can also be used for
a function that's imported. For example, I can type from math import factorial as f to alias the
factorial function. Now I sine f of 10, typed as f opening parenthesis, the number 10 and a closing parenthesis to a variable
called factorial_10. I'll print the variable
and see if it works. When we run the code, we see that it works just fine. Using an alias in
this way reduces the effort of typing
factorial every time. After I remove the alias, I can import as many functions as I'd like from a given module. I'm going to import
log and sqrt. I create a variable using
the log function to find the value of
log base 10 of 50. I do this by typing
x equals log 10, opening parenthesis 50,
and closing parenthesis. Again, I print the
variable on the next line. When I click "Run", I'll see whether
or not it worked. Once again, it worked just fine. Now, what if I want to import all the functions
inside a given module? I can remove the functions I added earlier and replace
them with a star. This basically translates to import all from the math module. When I run the code again, let's see if it
works, and it does. However, this practice of using a star is not the best
approach in certain cases. For example, this is a
small file and I know that the log 10 function is present
inside the math module. But when you work with
a large code base, it could be difficult
to track where the log 10 function came from. Additionally, when you're
importing other modules, it may get confusing. Importing packages is very similar to importing
modules in Python. Just like you can have
imported functions, you could also import variables and classes from a given module. Now, I replace the star with a variable
called some_variable, which may be present
inside the given module. Let me try to run
the code again. Since the math module doesn't
have such a variable, it throws an error
when I print it. The interpreter is
not able to import some variable from math. In this video, you explored different methods that can
be used to import modules in Python using keywords like 'import from' 'star', and 'as'. This enables you to use
the modular structure of Python in object-oriented
programming in general.