In this video, you will learn
how to use import statements for accessing modules from
different directories. You will also learn how to create packages
from the python package index using pip. Every python file,
which means any file with a .py extension containing a script is
effectively a module. The check imports file I am currently
creating, is therefore a module for some of the files. The code that you are working with
is generally called the main module. In this case check imports is the main
module present in the current working directory. Also called the scope of the project, you can import any python file that
is present in the current scope. For example, I can import the sample
.py file by typing import, followed by the file name
without the extension. I then click on, run in the top menu. The system returns a message in
the terminal pin that the import was successful. If I try to import a file
with a .txt extension, the import will not be successful. For example, if I tie import followed by
sample text and click on run, the system will return an error message in the
terminal pin, as it is not a python file. Python has a library of standard
modules called built in modules. These modules are directly built
into the python interpreter and don't have to be installed separately. I can import a module like
Jason by typing import Jason. Once I execute the command,
I can start using its functions directly. The list of built in modules can be
found in the python standard library. You can think of packages as
the structuring of python modules as a collection. Special files called init.py
files are required for python to treat directories
containing the file as packages. Python has a rich collection
of community built packages that I could find on
the python package index, or pyPI. Pyp or pyp3 is the default
package installer for python, and helps with the installation
of packages from pyPI. Since I have already installed numpy
I can import it directly in python. I do this by typing import numpy,
clearing my terminal and clicking run, if I try to import a package that is not
installed, I will get an error message. For instance, if I type import seaborn and
click run the message, module not found error is returned. If the package seaborne were installed, I could run the command again in
python without any error messages. To do this,
I would run pip install seaborn in the terminal to download
the package from the pyPI index. I can also import files I have
created in one of the folders within the current working directory. I have a folder called workplace
containing a file called trial.py. The file consists of a list with the
variable names and two entries inside it. I'm going to import this file and
access its contents. I start by importing the sys module. Next I use a path function in
sys by typing sys.path.insert. Now, I must enter the path name to
my workplace package in the first index location. To do this, right click on the work
place directory and select copy path. I entered this path name as
the first index location, when passing the path as an argument. I must use single quotes and type
the letter R in front of the path string. The sys.path list now has a new directory
where it will look for modules. Now I must import my trial file
here by typing import trial and pressing enter, a squiggly line
appears below the word trial. This is because the IDE does not know
about the path I've added inside sys.path. However, I can still proceed as
the interpreter will know about this path. To print the output I type,
print followed by trial.names and click the run button to execute. The values of Adrian and Maria from
the names list variable, are printed. In this video, you learned how modules
can be imported from anywhere within your system, inserting the path
name can however, be very specific and
often tricky and confusing. Don't worry about this too much for now. It is more important to focus on importing
files from your current directory. It is nice to know that importing modules
from other directories is an option if you need it. It is good practice though to move the
required files into the directory that you are working in.