Now you should be fairly
familiar with how modules work. Let's look at another
related concept in Python, namespaces and scopes. The official Python
documentation defines namespace as mapping
from names to objects, and scope is the
textual region of a Python program where the namespace is
directly accessible. At this point, the dictionary
with its key value pairs serves as the ideal
data structure for the mapping of
names and objects. You have also learned how every Python file
can be a module. You can view the same module as a place where Python
creates a module object. A module object
contains the names of different attributes
defined inside it. In this way, modules are
a type of namespace. Namespaces and scopes
can become very confusing very
quickly and so it is important to get as much
practice of scopes as possible to ensure a
standard of quality. There are four main
types of scopes that can be defined in Python: local, enclosed, global and built-in. The practice of trying
to determine in which scope a certain
variable belongs is known as scope resolution. Scope resolution
follows what is known commonly as the LEGB rule. Let's explore these. Local, this is where the first search for a variable
is in the local scope. Enclosed, this is defined inside an enclosing
or nested functions. Global is defined at the uppermost level or
simply outside functions, and built-in, which is the keywords present in
the built-in module. In simpler terms, a variable declared inside a
function is local, and the ones outside
the scope of any function
generally are global. Here is an example, the outputs for the code onscreen shows the
same variable name, Greek, in different scopes. There are three possible
declarations of the variable. At the global level, inside the function b or
inside the nested function c, which is called from within b. The id function is used here
in the print statements, which returns the
identity of the objects. You can make some
observations from the output. The id for the global
variable alpha remains same as defined after the
code is completely executed. The id for the local
variable beta inside the function b remains
unchanged before and after the execution of nested
function c. The id for Gamma is assigned only within the scope of
the nested function. The id for all
three variables is different even if they all
have the same variable name. Variables in Python are implicitly declared
when you define them. That means, unlike other
programming languages, there is no special
declaration made in Python for the variable which
specifies its datatype. What it also implies is that
a given variable is local, not global when it is declared
unless stated otherwise. This contrasts with most
other programming languages where variables are
global by default. When a variable is declared
in a global space, it is also local to that space. This can be understood
with a simple example. If you look at the content of
both of these dictionaries, you can see how the value for the key country is different
in both the cases. You have also used two special built-in
functions called locals and globals that list
the contents of the dictionary inside
both of these scopes. Here you can see the output. In this example, you can see the global variable declared
remained unchanged. While global variables
are acceptable, they're discouraged for
a number of reasons. When you are working
with production code, the project structure
can get complex, and working with global
variables can be hard to diagnose which lead to what
is called the spaghetti code. Other paradigms such
as access modifiers, concurrency, and
memory allocation are better handled
with local variables. While you were just beginning
our journey using Python, it is always a good idea to integrate good
practices in your code. There are two key words
that can be used to change the scope of the variables,
global and non-local. The global keyword
helps us access the global variables from
within the function. Nonlocal is a special
type of scope defined in Python
that is used within the nested functions
only in the condition that it has been defined earlier in the
enclosed functions. Now you can write a piece of
code that will better help you understand the idea of
scope for an attribute. You have already created a
file called animalfarm.py. You will be defining
a function called d inside which you will be creating another
nested function, e. Let's write the
rest of the code. You can start by defining
a couple of variables, both of which will
be called animal. The first one inside the d function and the second
one inside the e function. Note how you have
to first declare the variable inside the
e function as nonlocal. You will now add a few
more print statements for clarification from when
you see the outputs. Finally, you have called
the e function here, and you can add one
more variable animal outside the d function. This will be a global variable. You can add a call
for the d function and a print statement
for the global variable. You can save this file
and run the code. First, the global
animal variable gets assigned to camel. Then call this function, and once inside it, assign elephant to
the local animal. Then declare the
inner function e and proceed by printing before calling functions animal
where the value of animal will be the local
value which is elephant. Once you are inside
the inner function e, you use the nonlocal keyword to declare that you are going to use the animal variable and you change the
value to giraffe, and here you can see that the print statement will
give inside nested function. The value is giraffe, which stays consistent even after you get out of
the inner function. When you print after
nested function, the value still remains giraffe. Once the function
is fully executed, come out to see
that the value of global animal will be camel which you had
assigned at the beginning. So you can see the changes
that you've made inside are not going to affect the value
of the global variable. Let's look at one last thing. If you comment the
local variable out, this will throw an error. You can see there is
no binding present of a nonlocal animal present inside the d function which
was required here.