Cars are a major part of our lives that make it
easier to move around. But if you need your
car to do more, such as handled driving in the snow or carry
large objects, well, we could probably
modify it by adding winter tires or hitching
a trailer to it. In a similar way, Python is a powerful
language that allows developers to
build amazing things, but it can gain even more functionality with
the use of modules. In this video, you
will learn about modules in Python and
why they are used. You'll also explore
the different types of modules and be able to explain
where they can be found. Now, you may wonder what
a Python module is. Imagine that modules work like instructions to make a pie. Instead of trying
to figure out what the steps are to
create your pie, you follow the instructions. Modules work in the same way. They are building
blocks for adding functionality to your code, so you don't need to
continually redo everything. A Python module contains
statements and definitions. A file like sample.py can
be a module named sample, and can be imported. Modules in Python can contain both executable
statements and functions. But before you explore
how they are used, it's important to
understand their value, purpose, and advantages. Modules come from
modular programming. This means that the
functionality of code is broken down into parts
or blocks of code. These parts or blocks have
great advantages which our scope, reusability,
and simplicity. Let's delve deeper into these. Everything in Python
is an object, so the names that you
use for functions, variables, and so on
become important. Scoping means that modules
create a separate namespace. Two different modules can have functions with
the same name, and importing a module
makes this a part of the global space in the
code being executed. Re-usability is the most important
advantage of modularity. When you write a piece of code, modules help you
avoid the need to write all the functionalities
that you may need. Duplication of code,
duplication of efforts uses more computer memory
and it's less efficient. Let's say for example, you want to import
a math package, you automatically get
access to a loss of functionality such as factorial, the greatest common divisor, use this GCD and so on that are re-used
without defining them. One other feature that using modules brings is simplicity. When modules have a little
dependency on each other, it helps achieve simplicity. Each module is built with
a simple purpose in mind. Modules are defined
by their usage. You can also use a
regular expression or RE module for managing
regular expressions. Simplicity also helps in avoiding interdependency
among these modules. If you're working on
data visualization, import of a single module like Matplotlib is sufficient
for visualizing your data. There are different types of modules that exist in Python. The main difference between these modules is the way
the modules are accessed. Let's cover built-in modules. Some modules are already built into the standard
Python library. When you use a statement like Import math in your
Python code for example, the interpreter first tries
to find a built-in modules. How do you import and
execute modules in Python? The first important thing
to know is that modules are imported only once
during execution. If for example, you import
a module that contains prints statements,
prints open brackets, close brackets,
you can verify it only executes the first
time you import the module, even if the module is
imported multiple times. Since modules are
built to help you, stand-alone modules
hold all the functions, but will most likely not contain functions that execute
without calling. It's only when the user executes the different
functions inside that module that they will find the utility of those
functions in the code. The module is normally defined at the beginning of the code, but you can define it at
any point in the code. Since code execution
in Python is serial, you must import the module first before you execute any
function inside of it. Modules can also be executed
from within the function. This means that the code
inside that module can only be used once the
function is executed. In this video, you've
covered modules in Python. You learned about the
different types of modules and how they can
be used to save you time, and make your work
more efficient.