When you access the web from your
device you may click on a web link or type in an address. The address is known as a URL And it
links or points to a specific resource or web page. In this video you
will learn what A URL Is and the different parts that make up A URL. You will discover how each URL is purposefully constructed to point to a
specific resource or web page on the web. Every single resource on the web
is located by an address known as the uniform resource locator or URL. Every time you click on a web link or
type in a web address you visit a URL. A URL is made up of
multiple parts put together. The first part is known as the scheme. This is followed by the domain name, the file path and parameters. Let's begin by exploring the scheme, Domain name and file path. The first part of A URL Is the scheme or
otherwise referred to as the protocol. It's located at the beginning
of any URL address and can be identified as HTTP or HTTPS. The characters HTTP stands for
hypertext transfer protocol. The protocol determines the set of
rules around the transmission and exchange of data. The difference between HTTP and
HTTPS is security as the S stands for secure. HTTP sends data as
plain text which can expose the sender's information
HTTPS encrypts all data. This means the data isn't in
a readable format which is more secure. The HTTP protocol is also responsible for
sending and receiving HTML across the web. HTTP and its extension HTTPS is the most widely used
protocol over the web. Okay. So now that you have
learned about the scheme, let's explore the subdomain and
the domain. The subdomain is located
before the domain and usually contains the home page and
other important pages. The most common subdomain is
World Wide Web represented by WWW. It's important to know that some
browsers replace the scheme and subdomain with a symbol such as
that of a lock for encrypted pages. This is done to make the URLs
easier to read and understand. Next is the domain name
which consists of two parts. They are second level domain and
top level domain. Let's explore each of these briefly. Now the second level domain name refers to
an organization or the name of a company. For example, the second level domain for the company called
Little Lemon is Little Lemon. The part that follows
the second level domain and concludes your domain name is
called the top level domain. It is used to reference a country or
category of your organization. For example, a .com address can
indicate a commercial entity, .org means an organization and
.ie represents a country, sovereign state or dependent territory. Now that you know what
the domain name consists of, Let's explore the file path. The file path also known as the page path
directs you to the location of a resource. The resource may be any type of files
that can be transmitted over HTTP, such as web documents,
image files and metadata. It's worth remembering that a URL
is simply an address where the files are stored. They can either be local or web based, which can be external to
the domain. when hosting locally, The resources such as images and web files
are located on the user's device or server. When web based they exist on the user's
remote web server or external server. For example, the web based URL for the 4.1 release for
Django has its own URL with a specific file path which includes the year,
month and day it was published. URL parameters are also
known as query strings and are used to structure additional
information inside a URL. You use URL parameters to capture
any part of the URL and pass its value for
processing A query string is similar. It begins with a question mark symbol and
is placed after the URL Path. It contains parameters represented as key value pairs that can
appear inside a URL path. You can add more than one by adding
the ampersand symbol between parameters. Django can process both types of URL but
mainly uses the URL parameters. Finally, let's briefly explore
the topic of URL Design. URL design is the practice of
purposefully creating URLs. So it's important for Django
developers to understand the different parts that make up A URL. This helps
define well designed URLS, as the website content requirements determines
how the URL will be constructed. In this video, you learned what a URL is, the different parts that make up A URL and
how they work. You now know that each URL is unique and it points to a specific resource or
page on the web. Well done.