Previously, you learned that to
define URLs, you first define the URL structure using the path function and then
this URL is mapped to a view function. Sometimes developers need to pass
information to the view function for additional processing. In Django,
developers have the option to pass values as URL parameters by using
URLs as source of information. In this video, you will learn how to
use URL parameters to retrieve data from a URL and send it to
the view function for processing. You will also explore how
to use angle brackets and path converters to capture
a parameter value from the URL. Suppose the owners of Little Lemon want
to add a web page to display a name from the drinks menu. The name is sent in the URL and
then displayed as a heading on the page. For example, the URL can contain
the names of coffees like americano espresso and cappuccino. The last part of the URL
represents a drink name and this value can be passed to the view
function from the URL as a parameter. In Django, you can capture
a value from a URL using angle brackets inside the path function
where you define the URL. Captured values can optionally include
something known as a converter type. You will learn more about this later. For now,
just know that to capture a string you can use the keyword str followed by name for
the value. Then inside the views.py
file you pass this name as an argument after the request object. Let's open VS code now and create a food
item page by configuring a URL and passing a parameter to the view function. First, open the URLs.py file. And inside the URL
patterns list at a path. Inside the path function defined
the URL as dishes forward slash. And then inside angle brackets place
the path converter for a string. The example in this video is str colon and
then dishes. Next, add the view functions
location views.menu items. str represents the path converter type and dish is the URL parameter name
given to match the value. For example, if the URL parameter
contains the string, pasta, it will be represented
as dish equals pasta. Once this code is complete,
open the views.py file and create the view function. First, make sure to import
the http response object. This function will match the path
defined inside the URLs.py file. In the function declaration,
you need to pass an additional argument after request because an argument
was passed inside the URL.py file. Inside the function body,
create a dictionary called items. Once the dictionary is set up,
add some entries to it. In this example noticed that three
key value pairs were added with the keys of pasta,
falafel, and cheesecake. Next create the code to access
the dictionary by passing a value and save it to a variable named description. The logic of this code is that
the URL parameter value passed to this function will be matched to
a key inside the dictionary. Then the associated value is stored
in the variable named description. The final step is to return
the http response object containing a html heading to display
the function argument and the associated description
variable as plain text. Save the code and run the server. Open the browser and add dishes forward slash pasta at
the end of the local host URL. Remember that the word pasta is
one of the dictionary items. The text displays in the browser,
formatted with the URL parameter as a heading and
the dictionary description as text. Similarly, if we modified this
to let's say cheesecake and press enter,
notice the text updates accordingly. Defining URLs with parameters
has a wide variety of uses. In this example,
the logic of the view function was to pass a URL parameter that matches
the description in a dictionary. Developers can also use URL parameters to
send information to the logic layer for processing or as search and
sorting criteria. Similarly, URL parameters can be used to
fetch data that can be used with forms, data models, and other data structures. For example, you can use a URL
parameter to pass the primary key of a database table using
the INT path convert type. Once the primary key is
sent to the view function, it can fetch the database row and
its data. And you will learn how to do this
later when you explore jangle models. Mapping URLs with parameters is
also useful to create meaningful grouping of the content. In this video, you learned how to use URL
parameters to retrieve data from a URL and send it to the view function for
processing. You also explored how to
use angle brackets and path converters to capture
a parameter value from the URL.