Have you ever needed
to store some data, but were unsure about what
data structure to use. It's a common coding problem. In this video, you will discover two important data structures
that could be used. Lists and sets. Both a very useful
data structures with their own strengths
and weaknesses. Lists and sets are common in
many programming languages. Let's get started
by exploring lists. In most programming languages, lists are represented
as objects. This means that in
addition to storing data, they also have their
own in-built methods. Here, an in-built sort method is used to arrange the
numbers in a list. As with arrays, it
is common to find lists that are declared
as either a string, an integer, or float. In some programming languages, you can have lists with
mixed element types. A list is an abstract concept that refers to a
container of elements. A stable implementation
of a list is done using either an
array or a linked list. An array-based list is
an ordered collection built using arrays as the
underlying data structure. As such, they are subject to the same strengths and limitations associated
with arrays. Array-based implementations
relate to the initial sizing rather than simply pointing to another node as
with a linked list. Some languages require
that you initially determine how big a
structure will be, while others allow for
dynamically growing structures. It should be noted that this freedom is
somewhat surface level. For many dynamic structures, there is an initial size automatically configured
at instantiation. When this limit is reached, the array will copy itself into a new structure with a
larger size allocation. Therefore, the decision
not to arbitrarily allocate space at the
onset may come at a cost at runtime when such
data structures may have to expand multiple times during the execution of
other operations. Consider the computation
cost of a list dynamically growing
while performing operations in a loop. In this case, it
would help to set the initial list size to be larger rather than
dynamically growing, which can be costly due
to having to create and copy over values into
increasingly bigger lists. A linked list works differently. A linked list contains two
pieces of information, the data and a pointer
to the next list item. A linked list begins with
an empty list and can grow dynamically by introducing
new cells to the list. To grow a linked list, you simply have to add a new node and point the
list at its location. This makes them very fast for storing large amounts of data. The flexibility of
linked lists is achieved by including some additional
storage requirements. Notably, in each node, there must be some reference
to the nodes around it. There is also a head and a tail. The head is a unique node that indicates that it is
the start of the list, and the tail indicates
where the list ends. This approach to growing the size of the data
structure is very powerful and can lead to very large but
manageable datasets. What does sets entail? Set is very similar to a list. However, a set will store its elements in
an unordered way. Though there are some
possible implementations of ordered sets, sets have some
unusual tendencies. A set will only hold
unique elements, so adding an element
that already exist to a set will make no difference
to the data stored there. The unordered process
in which sets store their information means
that printing out a set will not
necessarily reflect the order in which the
element was added to the set. Once a value has been added
to a set, it cannot change. Instead, you would
have to delete it and add a new value instead. Sets are exceptionally
fast to search. This is because if it's
internal mechanisms. A set uses hash tables to determine where to store
the elements of a set. Therefore, each number
that is passed to a set will have a hashing
function applied to it. A hashing function can be
defined as an algorithm that takes in some data and maps
it to a fixed size value. The value is
theoretically unique and every time the function
is applied to the data, the same value is returned. This means that searching a
set can be done in O1 time. This is due to the
mechanism that is used to save values in a set. You will learn about
hashing functions in more detail later in the course. A O1 approach would
be to iterate over the entire data structure to check for the presence
or absence of a value. Sets instead apply the mapping
function to the input data and check the resulting output to see if a value exists there. If it does, then the
value is returned. If it doesn't exist in the set, then the data was not
stored in the set, and hence will return a false. While sets can perform an
exceptionally quick search, performance degrades
when dealing with very large datasets. This is due to the nature
of the hashing function. The more values retained, the more risk there
is a clashing. Clashing is when the
hashing functions return the same unique mapping
for two different values. The larger the dataset used, the more likely clashing
is prone to happen, so there we are. In this video, you have explored two very important and
useful data structures, lists and sets, and learned about
the strengths and weaknesses inherent in both. You should now have a greater
sense of when to use each, depending on the storage
needs of the solution.