Congratulations on
reaching the end of this introduction to
databases course. You've worked hard to
get here and developed a lot of new skills
during the course. You're off to a great start with your database learning and you should now have a
thorough understanding of databases and data. You were able to demonstrate some of this learning along with your practical
database skill set by creating and querying a
database in the project lab. Following your completion
of this course, you should now be able to; demonstrate knowledge of
different database schema, explain relational
database design and table normalization, perform database operations
such as create, read, update, and delete,
and demonstrate SQL commands by sorting
and filtering data. In this course, you learned
about databases, so, if you found this course helpful and wants to discover more, then why not register
for the next course. You'll continue to
develop your skill set during each of the back-end
developer courses. In the final lab, you'll apply everything
you've learned to create your own fully functional
database system. Whether you're just starting out as a technical professional, a student or a business user, the course and projects
prove your knowledge of the value and capabilities
of database systems. The lab consolidates
your abilities with the practical application
of your skills. But the lab also has
another important benefit. It means that you'll have a
fully operational database that you can reference
within your portfolio. This serves to demonstrate your skills to
potential employers. Not only does it
show employers that you are self-driven
and innovative, but it also speaks
volumes about you as an individual as well as your
newly obtained knowledge. You will soon receive your
professional certificate in back-end development. The certification
can also be used as a progression to other
role-based certifications. Depending on your goals, you may choose to go deep with advanced role-based
certifications or take other fundamental courses once you earn this
certification. Masters certifications provide globally recognized and
industry-endorsed evidence of your technical skills. Thank you. It's been a
pleasure to embark on this journey of discovery with you. Best of luck in the future.