You've reached the end of module one, that gave you an introduction
to the full stack. It's now time to review what
you've learned in these lessons. You began this module by exploring
how full stack development works in the real world. Meta software engineer manager, walked you through a day in
the life of a full stack developer. After this, you reflected on what you
hope to learn from this course and you familiarized yourself with the course
syllabus to orientate yourself. You also read some suggestions on
how to be successful in this course. This included tips like setting daily
goals, scheduling time to study and making sure that you remember
to take regular breaks. The last one might seem like
the least important, but to be able to focus and
work to the best of your abilities, you need to make sure that you're
well rested and energized. After this reflective first part of the
course, you explored the different stacks, namely the front-end,
back-end and data stacks. You learned about the programs and
tools used in these stacks, such as python Django and DRF, which
are used for developing the back-end. You now know that the full stack
contains everything you need to create an application's core, or
the back-end, process the data and present it via APIs on web or
mobile applications. And you learned that the full stack is
an end to end solution for an application, and that a full stack developer is equally
skilled in the back-end, front-end and database stacks. Furthermore, you learned about
typical full stack developer tasks, such as developing the back-end
of applications, storing, processing and
retrieving data from the database. And creating servers and managing them for
development, staging and production access. Next you learned about
N-tier architecture, this is when an application
architecture is so into multiple tiers. The benefits of N-tier architecture are
that it's easier to secure and scale and application and fix problems or
add new features. Fixing and adding features are more
manageable because each tier is separate and works independently. You learned about the two
types of N-tier architecture, namely 3-tier and 4-tier architecture. You learned that in a 3-tier architecture,
the 3 tiers are, presentation, application and data tiers. Whereas, in 4-tier architecture,
a 4th tier, named the delivery tier, deals with cashing and delivering
the front end assets to the client. Lastly, you reviewed what you know
about client server architecture. For example, you reviewed the components
of a client server architecture as well as the roles of the client and the server. Congratulations, you've now covered
the introduction module of this course, and you are ready to complete the quiz. In the next module,
you'll learn about front-end technologies, including, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.