Welcome to the full stack course. In this video, you'll learn what full
stack development is, what a full stack developer does, and why it's an in
demand role in today's job market. You might find yourself
wondering what stacks are. They are a combination of software
applications and components you use to fix a problem or create a project
with a certain development focus. For example, there's the front end stack that's
mostly focused on the user interface. Developers use different tools and
programming languages like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to build the front
end of Web and mobile applications, and together they are the front-end stack. On the other hand, you build the back
end of a Web application which is mainly the apps core with another set
of programming languages and tools which include Python,
Django, and DRF. And these comprise your back-end stack. The back-end stack also includes
a data management system that consists of database applications to process data. This is generally referred to as the data
stack and is part of the back-end stack. Let's examine these three
stacks in more detail. The back-end stack has everything
you need to create the back end of an application's core that deals with
business logic, workflows, and data. Back-end development includes
programming languages like Python or JavaScript frameworks like Django and
utilities like DRF. And also builds tools, databases,
and caching applications. Let's shift the focus to the front end,
which has two distinct parts web and mobile. This stack includes everything you need
to create a functional user interface of a web or mobile application that
can communicate with the back end. To build the front end
of a web application, you need to learn HTML,
CSS, and CSS frameworks. You also need to know about client side
programming languages like JavaScript or TypeScript and
JavaScript frameworks like react. And lastly, you also have to
be familiar with either iOS or Android development tools for both for
mobile application development. Now, let's move onto the data stack. One of the most crucial parts of every
application is the data stack or tools you use to successfully store,
process, and retrieve data. This stack contains SQL or
no SQL database engines, caching tools, and everything required to process data. In fact, MySQL, MariaDB, and
PostgreSQL are some of the most widely used database engines you
can learn to use for data stack. For caching, Redis is a popular and
widely used solution. Finally, let's discuss the full stack
which is the end to end solution for an application. It contains everything you need to
create the applications core or the back-end process the data presented
by APIs on web or mobile applications. A full stack developer is equally
skilled in the back-end, front-end, and database stacks. Such a developer should have some
essential DevOps skills to build and deploy an application to production,
staging, and development servers. To be a full stack developer, you must
learn everything that is required to create and
deliver a functioning application. And you must also be familiar with
a version control system like git for full stack development. It takes time to be a successful
full stack developer, so you'll have to be a little
patient with yourself. But what exactly are a full stack
developers responsibilities? A typical full stack developer
performs the following tasks, understand the complete project and
take full ownership. Select a pro create tools for developing
the front-end, back-end, and database, create effective user interfaces for
web and mobile applications. Develop APIs, develop the back-end
of applications, store, process, and retrieve data from databases,
create servers and manage them for development, staging,
and production access. Integrate with the CI/Cd workflows, ensure
the responsiveness of web applications, work together with the graphics
team to bring their ideas to life. Optimize applications for maximum
performance and make sure applications follow the best security practices,
that's quite a lot of responsibilities. So you now understand why some patience
is needed to learn all of these skills. But don't worry with hard work and
dedication you'll get there. In this video, you learned about different stacks in
the application development process. You also learned about
full stack development and the role of a full stack developer.