When you develop an application, it has different parts. There's the UI, backend, business logic, and database. These parts need to properly communicate with each other
to make an application work. In this video, you
will learn about some common architectures used in modern application
development. Let's start with
layers and tiers. In application development, you often hear the terms layers and tiers being used interchangeably but there's a difference
between them. As you learned earlier
in the course, an application can
have multiple parts, like the presentation part, the core of the
application where the business logic
stays, and the database. When these parts are in different places in the
application infrastructure, like on different servers, but they still communicate
with each other and function correctly
they are called tiers. Thus, layers are
virtual separations of different parts
of an application. Tiers are also different parts of an application but they're physically separated in the
application infrastructure. Now, let's discuss N-tier
architecture in two types, 3-tier and 4-tier architecture. In modern application
development, there can be any
number of tiers. When an applications
architecture is split into multiple tiers, it's called an
N-tier application. These days, 3-tier
architecture is the most commonly used
N-tier architecture. Some developers also use a 4-tier architecture
when required. Let's say you developed a web application and the
application is split into two distinct parts: the code
with business logic that processes the data and the
database to store the data. You host the application code on one server and the
database on another. Since they are physically separated into two
different servers, you can call them tiers. In this example,
there are two tiers. So where's the third one? The third tier is the
client computer or mobile, which is used to browse a web application
or access the APIs. These clients are completely
separate physical machines. Together, the client machine, your application server, and the database server makeup
a 3-tier architecture. In a 3-tier architecture, the client tier is called
a presentation tier. Client machines are
also called thin clients because they
don't run business logic. They only communicate with your application and
present the data. The tier that holds the
application code or business logic is called
the application tier. Finally, the tier that deals with data is called
the data tier. The 3-tiers are presentation, application and data tiers. Let's move on to the
4-tier architecture. In a web application with
a 4-tier architecture, a fourth tier is included
called the delivery tier. This delivery tier
deals with caching and delivering the front-end
assets to the client. For example, like a Content
Delivery Network or CDN. CDN providers have many servers across the world for
better content delivery. They store your web
applications, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and
images, and deliver them to the client from
the nearest server. Because CDN servers
are physically separated from your
application and data tiers, they're seen as another
tier, the delivery tier. This is just one example of
a 4-tier web application. These applications can be very different from one another
depending on their purpose, for example, financial or
enterprise applications that have different needs. There are several benefits
to an N-tier architecture. Let's examine some of them now. When the application is
divided into multiple tiers, it becomes easier to secure
and scale the application. Fixing problems or adding
new features becomes more manageable because each tier is separate and works
independently. Thus, the application
development process becomes more efficient when you use an N-tier architecture
for your application. In this video, you learned about the difference between
layers and tiers. You also learned about the popular N-tier
architecture and how to use it to create a 3 or
4-tier architecture for your web applications.