A common requirement when
creating web applications is the need to add dynamic
data inside HTML markup. This data can be represented
by a variable containing dynamic or calculated values or values stored in the
database of the application. Either way, a web framework needs a way to
understand this data. To address this, Django uses
Django template language or DTL to separate the presentation
and application logic. In this video, you
will learn how to work with the Django
template language. As you learned earlier, a Django template is a Python string or
text document marked up using Django
template language and interpreted by
the template engine. The DTL is based on the popular
Jinja2 template engine, and has most of the
features common to it. As a developer, writing code in a familiar language
is beneficial. DTL helps remove that barrier by providing flexibility
that aligns with the core time-saving
principle in Django of do not repeat
yourself or DRY. It also adds a layer
of security as the Python interpreter does not execute the template code. Once you understand the
use of template languages, much of the logic in creating the templates
becomes evident. There are four main constructs
in the syntax of DTL. They are variables, tags,
filters, and comments. Combined, they provide
the substitute for basic functionalities present
in a programming language. Let's explore each one now in a little more detail
starting with variables. Variables are surrounded
by double curly braces. When the template engine
encounters a variable, it evaluates that variable and replaces it with the result. Variables return a
dictionary-like object that maps keys to values. In this example, restaurant name is the key with the
value of Little Lemon. When rendered,
this template code displays Welcome to
Little Lemon restaurant. Similarly, you can use
dictionary, attribute, and list index lookup
using.notation. Now you know about variables. Let's move on to tags. Tags are the source of logic that you can
add to templates. Tags are created using curly braces and the
percentage symbol. The most commonly used tags are the control structures
such as if and for loops. The if tag is used inside the template to render
different outputs. A typical use case is to check the login
status of a user. The code in this example
checks if the value of the Boolean variable logged
in is true or false. If true, the page renders
the welcome statement. If false, it renders
the login link. Another standard workflow
is to iterate over the dictionary to display
an unordered list. To do this using a template, you need to have some way of looping over the data
and printing out the HTML markup with the data object for
each item in the list. Let's now understand
how a template list with a for loop works. For example, suppose you have a simple list that contains menu items for the restaurant. Each item has a
name and a price. To create this menu statically, you wrap each menu item in an unordered list using
the list item tag. To create this Menu
dynamically with templates, you add the for loop
code where items repeat. In this menu example, it's inside the unordered list. The code will iterate over the menu list object and
display the name and price. The variable item will
keep a reference to each object as the iteration continues to go through
each menu item. Apart from if and for, there are many other texts
such as extends and include, and you will learn about
them later in this lesson. Now, let's explore filters. Unlike tags, filters can change the values
of the variables. For example, if you add a
filter such as string upper, it will take an input string
and convert it to uppercase. Filters can also
additionally take an argument like when
using the date filter. For example, you can pass
the argument for year, month, and day, which produces a date in
this exact format. Finally, let's explore comments. You can create comments using the curly brace and
percentage symbols. Django ignores everything
in-between the two tags. It's important to note
that developers use comments for documentation
as they do not render. In this video, you
learned how to use the Django
template language. Developers frequently use
tags and filters when working with DTL to
create dynamic data, and you can learn more
about them from the link in the additional reading at
the end of this lesson.