In this video you will learn how to use
templates to return a web page with dynamic data to display a menu for
little lemon. You will explore how to
create templates and use them to get data from a dictionary and
display it on a web page. You will also learn to display data using
a four loop with a dictionary inside a template. First I open my apps,
fused that high file. Next I create a view function that takes
the request object as a parameter. I create a dictionary inside the function
by adding open and closed curly braces. Then I define name as the key and
give it the value of greek salad. I now need to assign the dictionary to
a variable which I'll call menu item. Okay so the code for
the dictionary is complete but this time instead of returning an http
response I will use the render function. So inside the parentheses
of the render function, I passed three parameters
first the request object and then the name of the html file and finally
the variable that holds the dictionary. It's helpful to think that
a python dictionary is similar to a Jason object commonly
used in web development. So my code is set up to work with
the template file, menu dot html. So I need to create this now back in
the project directory I create a new folder called templates and inside it
create a new file called menu dot html. I open this file and now I want to
write the code to dynamically display the dictionary object to do this. I start by creating double
curly braces and inside them. I passed the key of the dictionary
which in this example is name. I then saved the file to ensure that
Django finds the menu dot html file. I need to open the settings file and add the name of the templates
folder inside the templates list. I also need to make sure that I have
registered the app in the installed apps list. The final step I need to perform is
to open the U R L S dot pi file and inside the U R L patterns
list I add the path function. I then passed the U R L. I want to map to so
I type menu forward, slash and then the name of the view
function to be called. And this is views dot menu. Okay, so I'm happy with my code. Let me run the server and
open the URL in the browser. I navigate to the menu page and notice that the value stored in the
dictionary is displayed in the browser. It's important to know that the values
held in the dictionary are the content that will display on the web page. And this is the logic I create in
the code bypassing the dictionary key and the html template. And this is an example of returning
dynamic content to a web page if the value in the dictionary updates. So will the value displayed
on the web page and I can add as many key value pairs inside
the dictionary as I want to I can even wrap this content inside html tags and
you'll learn more about this soon. By now you know that in django developers
can use templates to make a static page dynamic. The layout of the page can
be structured with html and the dynamic data is then placed
inside the double curly braces. The double curly braces imply
the dynamic content and it's something that is called
mangoes template language. Let me expand on this concept a little
more Now back in the views dot py file I will replace the dictionary with
an object containing some more values. This is a little more complex
notice that manes is the key and then a list of dictionaries is the value. Inside each dictionary are two key
value pairs with name and price. As the keys notice that I have assigned
this to a variable called new menu which is passed inside
the render function. So to display this in the browser,
I will have to update the code and logic in the menu dot html file. Inside menu dot html. I removed the existing code next
inside a set of single curly braces with a double percentage symbols. I need to loop over each item in
the dictionary using a for loop. So I type four and then item and
Mainz which is the dictionary's name. Next inside a set of double curly braces. I type item dot name and
then add item dot price. Finally I need to close the for loop. Okay so my code looks good. I save the file and then open
the browser and refresh the page. Notice that the items from the dictionary
are displayed while the code works. I want each menu item to be
displayed on a new line to do this. I can add some html. So back in menu dot html. I pay some html table tags
with in line styling applied. Now when I refresh the page notice
that the menu displays inside a table. So now I should be able to
add another dictionary and the content will update on the web
page back in the views dot pi file. I add another item with a price of five. I saved the file and refresh the page. Notice that the values are updated
dynamically on the web page. This is how you can create
programming logic and apply it to templates to render dynamic
data on a web page using Django. In these examples I demonstrated
the rendering of dynamic data using a dictionary as the data source. It's important to know that this data
source can be other things like a database or an API. And you'll learn how to do
that soon in this video. You learned how to return a web page
with dynamic data using templates