One of the reasons Django is
so popular is that it allows developers to create dynamic
website content quickly. With just a few steps, you can take data that's
stored in a database, write some logic for it, and then display it to the
end user in the browser. Previously you learned how
to display dynamic data on a web page using objects that
were passed to a template. In this video, you
will learn how to create a dynamic menu for little lemon by passing a model object to a
template from a view. You will also explore how to loop over an
object and display its content using a for-loop with the Django
template language. I'm in VS Code and I have
the models.py file open. Previously you learned how
to create a model named menu with attributes
for name and price. Notice that name is set to a char field and the price
to an integer field. I've also created a dunder
string method that will render a string for the objects
with the name attribute. Recall that this just
helps with visualization and identification and
Django administration. If open Django administration
in the browser, recall that this model contains data like the menu
items for hummus, falafel and so on. My code is now set up and I'm ready to create
the view function. Inside the views.py file, I create another view
function called menu by ID. Just like an earlier videos, I pass in the request object, but there are a couple of
different steps I need to take. First, I import the menu
from the models.py file. Next inside the function, I need to create an
object containing all the values present
inside the menu model. To do this, I use the method menu.objects.all and assign this to a variable named new menu. The next step is to create a dictionary using similar logic represented in the code above that you learned
about previously. Inside the curly braces, I create a key called menu. Then the value will be
the variable new menu. This will be assigned
to another variable called new menu_dict. The last step is to return a render function that
takes three parameters. The request object, the name of the template file,
and the dictionary. There's a lot of code on
the screen so let me just comment out the view
function I created earlier. This will also ensure no
regular expression conflicts as some of the names and the
two functions are similar. I save this file and
now I need to check the mapping in the urls.py file. Notice that the URL
inside the path is set to menu_card as the URL
resource location. For the final part, I need to create an HTML file with the same name that I typed inside the render
function, menu_card.html. Inside the file I pass the
menu key from the dictionary. Let me check that I've
saved all my files. I open the browser
and navigate to the URL menu_cards
and press "Enter." Notice that the query set object is displayed on the web page. I want the page to only display
the items of the object, so I need to modify my code. Back in the HTML file, I need to use the Django
template language with a conditional statement. I start by adding
single curly braces with the percentage symbol. Next, I create an if
condition by typing, if menu to check if items
are inside the menu. If this condition is true, I use a for-loop to iterate
over the items in the menu. On the following line, I add item.name and item.price. Then I need to make
sure I end the for-loop by typing endfor. Finally, I will add one
more piece of logic and else condition that displays some task if the menu
object is empty. I end the endif condition. My code looks good. I save the file and refresh the
web page in the browser. Notice that only
the objects, names, and prices are now
dynamically displayed. It's important to understand that this data was taken from a database and stored in a
model object using the model. Then I looped over the object to display each value
for name and price. My code is working, but I can
take this further by adding one final step to wrap the dynamic output with
HTML paragraph tags. If I saved the file and
refresh the web page, notice that each item now
displays on a new line. Finally, to demonstrate
this dynamic web-page tax, let me add another item to the database using
Django administration. I add the item Baklava
with a price of 10. I save the item and switch to
the menu page and refresh. Notice that the content updates automatically and
displays the new item. In this video, you learned
how to create a dynamic menu by passing a model object
to a template from a view. You also explored how to loop
over an object and display its contents using a for-loop with a Django template language.