When developing web applications. In Django recall the key
principle of don't repeat yourself are dry duplication
whether inadvertently or purposeful can lead to maintenance
issues and logical contradictions. Every distinct concept or piece of data
should live in one and only one place. The framework within reason should deduce
as much as possible from as little as possible. For example, to create the same header and
footer sections across multiple pages for the little Lemon website you can
make a copy of the markup and save it multiple times. Then only change the corresponding
title for each web page. But a more efficient method is to
build a base template containing all the common elements of the website and
assigned them to a block. This block can then be repeated
on every web page in this video, you will learn about template
inheritance in Django and how developers use it to speed
up user interface development. Suppose you have the task
of creating a prototype for the new Little Lemon website. The website has four pages for
home about Menu and book so far only one prototype page exists and
this is for the about us page in order to
work with templates efficiently. It helps to break the page
up into sections and in Django these sections
are referred to as blocks. For example, at the very top of most
websites you find what is called the header and
this is the first section or block. The header often contains
the company name and logo. It also usually has links to
the different pages of the website which is known as the navigation menu. Additionally, the header might contain
a section where users can log in. This usually includes a user icon
along with the drop down menu with a link to the user profile. When working with the page layout, it's best practice to keep the look
of the header consistent and in the same position across
all the pages of a website. This consistency is essential for
a good user interface and contributes to a positive user experience
because if the header is visible on all pages of your website, it makes it faster
and easier for the user to navigate. The same can be said for the footer. The footer is a section at the bottom
of a web page that contains essential company or contact details, navigation
links and copyright information. At this point, you may be wondering
how do I incorporate the header and footer across the four pages for
the little lemon website, that's where you use template inheritance,
template inheritance allows you to split out content by breaking
it down into individual components. You can then insert and reuse these
components without duplicating work. And this saves you a lot of time. Remember, Dry is a key
principle in Django and template inheritance is
a great example of this. Okay, so now you are familiar with
the concept of template inheritance. Let's explore the two tag
options needed to apply it. They are the include and the extends tech. Let's begin with the include tag
the html markup on the base page now references the files containing the code
for the header and footer sections. Using the include tag. If you need to make an update
to either of these files, you'll only need to do it once and
not on every page. The include tag lets you either
specify a template string or a variable to allow conditions for
different rendering. For example, say you want to
pass an object which contains information such as the page name. To do this, you can pass a dictionary
as an argument inside the render function to pass variables or
objects to the template to gain access to specific data from the header
file such as the page object. You need to add additional
attributes inside the include tag. Once added, you can access the page
object anywhere on the page for example, to display the page
name as a heading element. It's important to remember that this
object is part of the dictionary that was passed inside
the render function Inside the view let's recap when
using the include tag, you instruct the page to render this
sub template and include the html. This means that there is no shared
state between included templates. Each include is an independent
rendering process. Okay, let's move on to the second
tag which is the extends tag. This is similar to the include
tag with syntax and usage. However, its purpose and
functionality differ extend allows you to replace blocks or content from a parent
template as opposed to include That will include parts,
extend creates a parent child relationship where parents functionality can be
overwritten include, on the other hand, simply includes rendering
a template in the current context. There are two ways to use the extends tag. The first is that it can use the string
literal as the name of the parent template to be extended. The second is it can make use
of the value of a variable once the variable evaluates to a string. Django will use that string as
the name of the parent template. For example, say you have
a file called header dot html. That contains code for a navigation
menu represented as an a nordic list. You can extend the file contents of header
dot html to a file called about dot html. The code will effectively add
the contents of header dot html to the content inside about dot html. In this video, you learned about how
template inheritance can save you time by reusing blocks of content
such as headers and footers. Well done. You should have the four little
lemon pages developed in no time.