Up until now, you've discovered what template inheritance is and explored
the Include and Extends tags in Django. Remember, the Extends tag allows you to replace blocks or content
from a parent template. It creates a parentchild relationship where the child can overwrite
the parent functionality. Likewise, the Include tag adds parts and includes the rendering
of a template in the current content. It is easy to get confused between Extends and Include, but there are differences
that will become clearer with Practise. Let's begin with a demonstration. Suppose that you must design the Little Lemon website that contains
three pages called Home, Menu and about. While the contents of each of these pages
will differ, there are a few basic styling components that need to be
uniform across the website. Additionally, you may want the menu bar as part of the header so that it
can be present on all pages. Let's explore how to use the Extends and Include tags to implement
template inheritance in Django. Let's begin with the views.py file. You need to set up three views,
namely Home, about and Menu. These are the three pages you are
creating for the Little Lemon website. Ensure that you update your URL configuration file both
at the project and app levels. Also, map the respective
URLs to the views. Next, update the settings.py file
by adding the app inside installed apps. Then create a template folder
as part of DIRS in Templates. To work with templates,
you need to create a folder called Templates by rightclicking on the My
Project folder and selecting New folder. When working with template inheritance, you need to create another folder
in My project called Partials. This is where you will include
the header information. Now let's continue by creating a base HTML
file inside the Templates folder, which will contain the code for the base
HTML that you want inside all other pages of the website
still inside the Partials folder, create the three pages for the Little
Lemon website about, index and menu. Also, create a file called _header.html in the Partial folder. This is a file that you will use inside
the Include tag in the base HTML file. Now that you have the file structure set up, let's begin by adding some
code to the base HTML file. Remember that you can just type Exclamation Mark and press Enter
to add the basic HTML stub. Next, update the title
tag to Little Lemon. Also, add a main tag inside the body tag. Here you need to add the tags
for the block content. This allows you to use it
with the extended tag. So type Block content inside the first set
of curly braces and close it off by typing in Block in the second
set of curly braces. Make this block content stand out by adding some styling with a background
colour inside the body tag. Now save the file. The next step is to edit one of the pages.
Let's edit. Index.
HTML Add Block Content and add two paragraph tags inside
the block content tags. Now to utilise template inheritance,
add the extend tag at the top of the index HTML file by typing extends open quotation
mark based HTML close quotation mark. For this example, go ahead and apply the same steps
to add content to the other web pages. Remember to save the file and run the development server by typing
Python3 manage.py runserver in the terminal,
type Home in the URL and press Enter. Success. It is clear that the template
is rendered to the home page. Why? Remember, you did not add any specifications for a background
colour in the index file. What happens here is that the background that you specified in your base HTML file
is extended from the base HTML file. Well done. You just use template inheritance. Similarly, if you go to the about page,
notice how the details have changed according to the information
present on this page. In summary, the base dot HTML template
renders on each of the pages, but the unique content of each page
displays in the block content. Now let's add header information using the Include tag, you need to add
content to the header file and save it. To carry this through consistently to all
the Web pages, go to the base dot HTML file and add an Include tag
that contains the header file reference. Save the file again
and return to the server. Once the Web page is refreshed, notice the header information
at the top of the page. This will be displayed across each webpage without affecting the rest
of the page information. This is much more effective than adding
the header file inside a specific page, which will render the header
information only on that single page. In this video, you learned how to use the Include and Extends tags to utilise
Template Inheritance django this will save you a lot of time in your future
Web development projects.