Wow, you've made
it to the end of the full stack
course, well done. You had to work hard to bring
together the skills and knowledge you learned in
all of the courses so far, so you should be
proud of yourself. Bringing together
multiple skills to build a full stack Django app is
definitely an achievement. Let's do a quick review of what you learned
in the course. After completing the course, you were able to
show that you can connect an app's
back-end to MySQL, set up a booking API, and let the app display
available booking times. In addition to
this demonstration of your skills and knowledge, following your completion
of the course, you should now be able to describe the architecture
of the full stack, use semantic HTML to
create web pages, create basic forms and use
CSS to create layouts, update an HTML document
using JavaScript, populate Django models
from a MySQL database, query an API and update an HTML document
with the result, identify the different
hosting solutions for web applications, recognize the key components of a cloud computing
environment, and describe the challenges
of scaling web applications. Now you may be wondering what comes next in your
learning journey. This is the seventh course in the back-end
developer program, and you are close to
completing the full program. You have come so far, and learned so much, but there's yet more to learn. Like in the next course on cloud computing, in this course, you will learn about, the different tools and systems involved in cloud
computing in DevOps. You'll explore popular
Cloud solutions, and the benefits to
cloud computing, along with core Cloud architecture concepts
and approaches. Throughout the next two
courses in this program, you'll continue to
expand your skill set, and then you'll have the
opportunity to bring everything together in the back end
developer capstone project. The final course is coding interview preparation that will help you to be ready
for an interview. Once you've completed
all the courses in the back-end
developer program, you will receive a certificate. Now that you know
what lies ahead, you can prepare yourself for the next steps in your
learning journey. Good luck.