You've almost reached the end
of the full stack course. What's left now is to demonstrate the skills
you've learned in the course in a project comprised of three separate but
connected labs. Then you will complete the
final graded assessment quiz. The labs will assess
whether you are able to connect the back-end
of an app to MySQL, set up a booking API and have an app display
available booking times. But before you get to that, let's recap what you've
learned up to this point to help orientate you for the
final project and quiz. The labs and graded quiz will test everything you've
learned in the course. Use this recap to check which parts of the
course you're unsure about and have to review again before you continue with
the rest of the module. If you think back, you'll
recall that Module 1 was an introduction
to the full stack and what a full-stack
developer does. To be a full-stack developer, you must learn everything
that is required to create and deliver a
functioning application. Thus, you learned about
the different stacks, front-end, back-end,
and data stacks. A full-stack developer
needs to be comfortable with all three parts of
development to be successful. Such a developer should have some essential DevOps skills to build and deploy an
application to production, staging, and
development servers, as well as be familiar with a version control
system like Git. Next, you learned about
N-tier architecture. This is when an
applications architecture is split into multiple tiers. The benefits of
N-tier architecture are that it is easier to secure and scale
an application and fix problems or
add new features. Fixing and adding features
are more manageable because each tier is separate
and works independently. Finally, you reviewed what you know about client-server
architecture, which included learning
about the components of a client-server architecture and the role of clients and servers. In Module 2, you learned about
front-end technologies, which include HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript. In the HTML section, you learned how to create
a well-formed web page, as well as form submissions
and perform validation. You also learned about the
different input types that are validated by the web
browser on the client side. In the CSS section, you delved into CSS layouts and how to create them with
grids and flexboxs. Layouts, for example are
critical to designing a good webpage because they divide a page into
different parts, making what the user
sees more presentable. The lesson also covered how
to work with CSS selectors, pseudo-classes, and
pseudo elements. Lastly, in this module, you'll learn more
about JavaScript, which builds interactivity
into web pages. When you use JavaScript, updates are displayed in
real-time on users devices. You also learned
about data types like string and number and
when you should use them. You learned about
event handling, which is a function in JavaScript that
enables you to capture user input and process it to manipulate what's
displayed to the user. Finally, you learned
about front-end libraries and frameworks you can use
to streamline your coding. In Module 3, you reviewed a lot of content from previous courses to make sure that you
are well-placed to succeed in this
full stack course. Thus, you had a recap
of Django, APIs, Database and MySQL and models and migrations
to refresh your memory. You also learned about the
tools you need to create an API project using
Django and DRF, as well as how to
fetch data using JavaScript and using
it to query APIs. There were two important
labs in this module. One about configuring Django
to connect it to MySQL, and another one about submitting
a form with JavaScript. These are important to review
for the final project. The last module before the final project was about
production environments. This included learning about web server environments and
the concept of deployment, which is the process of uploading code and
data to servers. Here you learned about
two important concepts, CI or continuous integration, which imitates the production
environment and runs tests and CD or
continuous delivery, which is the uploading process. You also learned about
server and serverless. Server means there is
a dedicated server or virtual servers that you can access to make use
of idle resources. But it has to be
managed manually. While serverless is when
everything is provided and managed by the provider and you don't have to
configure anything. Next, you learned about virtual machines
and how you can use a Type 1 or Type 2 hypervisor to split a dedicated server
into multiple virtual ones. Following this, you learned
about containerization, which allows you to pack
applications and dependencies in container image
files that can run anywhere regardless of
operating system or hardware. Following this, you
learned about PaaS, which is a platform
as a service that gives you everything you
need to run an application, much like Cloud
service providers. You also learned about SaaS, which is software
as a service that solves a particular problem and provides an API to use it. DBass is a database
as a service and provides only
database solutions. Lastly, you learned
about IaaS or infrastructure as a service for creating an infrastructure
with servers. You also learned about
the different types of Cloud infrastructure and how they give you access
to high-powered machines. A key element of a Cloud
computing is a computing unit, which is a set of
virtual machines that are available for
on-demand deployment. You also learned about
the storage options you have where you can buy
giga or terabytes, use objects storage, or use Cloud provider services
that scale automatically. Then you learned about
networking in the Cloud, scaling in the Cloud,
and load balancing. Lastly, you learned
about content delivery networks or
CDNs and how they can improve scaling by caching
and serving static assets in the Cloud as well as determine the nearest
point of presence. This is a server where
static assets are stored. That's it for this review of the courses first four modules. Hopefully you now have a
better idea of what you feel confident about and what content you should perhaps review again. Good luck with the
final labs and quiz.