MySQL is one of the world's most popular and widely used database engines. It's open-source,
very performant, and works with both small and larger scale web applications. In this video, you'll
learn how to use MySQL as the back end database engine
for your Django project. Open the terminal and come to your Django project directory. If you're using pipenv, activate the virtual environment
using the pipenv shell. To avoid dependency conflicts, you should always use
a virtual environment for your Django projects. Pipenv is a great tool to manage your dependencies and the
virtual environment easily. Django needs a package called MySQL client to communicate
with the MySQL database. To install this package, apply the following command in the terminal inside
your project directory. Pipenv install MySQL client. If you're not using pipenv or configured your virtual
environment manually, use pip or pip3 or your preferred
package manager to install the MySQL
client package. For example, pip install MySQL client or pip3
install MySQL client. Now connect to the MySQL server from the terminal
using this command, MySQL-u root -p. If MySQL is running on a different
port number than 3306, for example 3307, you need to specify it
as well, like MySQL, -u root -p 3307 -p. By default, the host name for
MySQL is local host. If it is different in
your computer or server, you can specify it with
a h switch like this. MySQL-u root -h 127.0.0.1 -p. Now create a database called little lemon in the MySQL Shell using a create database command. Create database, little lemon. You can apply the command, show databases to see if the database was
created properly. This command will display
all the databases available in your
current MySQL setup. You're done here, exit the MySQL Shell
using exit command. Now, return to your Django project
directory and open the settings.py file. There's a section
named databases, which is currently
configured to use the sqlite database that comes
with every Django project. In this line where
it is mentioning sqlite3 to use as
the database engine, replace sqlite3 with MySQL. Write the database
name as little lemon. You need four extra settings to connect to the MySQL engine. These are host, user,
password and port. For host, write local host or the host name your
MySQL setup is using. For example, 127.0.0.1. The default username for
every MySQL setup is root. Use that as the user. If you created a different
username for your database, then use that username. Just note, never use the root user and the
production server because root user has full access to every database in
MySQL settings. Any misuse could
cause serious damage. For the password, write the password of this
database username. Finally, if the MySQL engine is running at the default
port number 3306, you don't need to specify it. But if it's running on a
different port, for example, 3307, you can write it
like this and you're done. It is really simple. Now it's time to check if everything is working perfectly. Return to the terminal. Inside your project directory, make migrations using Python
managed.py make migration, and then run the migrations using Python managed.py migrate. If the MySQL setting is
correct in the settings.py, you can see the migration
is running successfully. Congratulations, you
have successfully connected your Django
project to MySQL. Now let's connect to the MySQL Shell one
more time to check if Django migration really created those tables in the
MySQL database. Select the database you created previously using this command. Use little lemon. Now lists the table
is created by migrations using this
command, show tables. Excellent. Now you
can see the list of the tables created by
Django migrations. In this video, you learned
how to successfully connect to the MySQL database
in your Django project. You learned how to
use the MySQL Shell. You also learned how to
change the settings in the settings.py file to make
a successful connection, if your MySQL setup runs with a different host name
and port number.