Databases are a central component
of any web application. The ability to provide
persistent data is the key for
applications to perform, create, read, update,
and delete operations. While building a full
stack application, the databases can either be
relational or non-relational. However, relational databases
such as PostgreSQL, and MySQL are more commonly
used than non-relational databases such as
MongoDB and Neo4j, as they provide something
called a referential identity. In other words, they ensure consistency and accuracy
of data with the help of keys present for
records in a table and constraints that define
the rules for them. In this video, you will
briefly review what you know about databases, and
specifically MySQL. Django supports the use of many databases with
minimal configuration. These include PostgreSQL, MariaDB, MySQL,
Oracle, and SQLite. Among these PostgreSQL and MySQL are the most
commonly used. Django has features to
support each database that make it easy to
connect and work with. It provides a generic way to access the different
types of databases. A connection to a database is established by knowing
the type of database. When creating a Django project, the default configuration uses a SQLite database that requires no additional
installation. It is automatically set
inside the settings.py file. This means that you
can directly start working with the
database immediately. SQLite is known as a user friendly, zero
configuration database. There are many
advantages to using it. You don't need to install
anything to support the database as it doesn't
run as a server process. This means the database does
not need to be started or stopped and it doesn't require additional
configuration files. As a result, this type
of database is suitable for small projects or
rapid prototyping. But there may be occasions
where a more scalable, robust database is needed. For example, when moving from a development to a
production environment, the SQLite database has
a lot of limitations. It is serverless and doesn't have a user management system. MySQL, on the other hand, can be an alternative to SQLite. MySQL has advantages such as being an open
source database. It also has a lot of
other advantages over SQLite such as scalability
and authentication. To connect to a MySQL database, you need to provide the address where the database is running, the port number, and the database name
you wish to connect to. There are a few
steps that should be followed for using
MySQL with Django. These include setting up
MySQL on a local machine, installing the MySQL
DB API driver, updating MySQL settings inside Django and setting
up database tables. Let's briefly
explore these steps. To install the MySQL server, download the
installer appropriate for your operating system. The download link
can be found in the additional resources
at the end of this lesson. Start the MySQL
command line client with the following command, MySQL-u route-p. Hyphen u is the flag for
the username root, and hyphen p is the
flag for password. You will then be
prompted to enter the password set at the
time of installation. In the command terminal, you will get the MySQL prompt. You can now enter any
SQL statement in it. Start by creating a database
with the following command , create database my_database. Then enter the next command, show databases, which will show the list of currently
available databases. Next, you also need
a database driver, which is responsible for
mapping all the models and translating Python queries into SQL instructions via the model. There are a number of Python
drivers available for MySQL. Django recommends that the
MySQL API driver package, MySQL client is used. To use MySQL, the driver or connector, MySQL client needs
to be installed. When you connect to a database, the connection opens
on each request and it's kept open for a
specified amount of time. The connection is controlled by the CONN_MAX_AGE parameter and represents a
certain time before the connection is
automatically closed. To establish a connection
with the Django project, you must configure
parameters under the databases option of
the settings.py file. By default, the
configuration is for SQLite. You can also use an
options file for MySQL to store the database
connection credentials. You will learn more about
it later in this lesson. The credentials can include
the database name, username, and password, and are stored in a separate
configuration file. Inside the settings.py file, the MySQL connection
reference looks for the connection file in
the directory, etc/MySQL. Notice that this is not
within the Django project. This is a deliberate
security measure. You should note that the
settings can also be updated directly in a Django
settings.py file, but it is not recommended to be done in the production
environment. While Django creates
all the tables based on the models you have from
the migration scripts, the initial setup requires you to manually
create the database. Creating a database requires
a connection to the database itself and sufficient
permissions for authentication
and authorization. It's important to
remember that you must keep the database secure by assigning security roles and using strong usernames
and passwords. As a developer, you need to be aware of potential
security risks. One significant risk is the security of the
credentials of your database. Allowing someone to know
or access the username and password of your database
can have major consequences. You might find it hard to gauge the advanced
functionalities available in Django while using databases. However, the use of
Django with MySQL in a full stack application is a well accepted
industry standard. The ease of scalability and configuration options
available make it a good match while building robust and secure
applications in full stack.