Congratulations, you've reached the end of this
module on models. In this module, you've
learned to create models, apply migrations to
appropriate use cases using best practice principles
and learned to use the query set API to
interact with the database. Next, you discovered how
to create a form and use the form API to
bind data to objects. You learned how to use
the Django admin panel to add and control the permissions
of users and groups. Finally, unpacked how to set up a MySQL database for
your Django app. It's now time to recap the key points and the
skills you've gained. You began the module with
models and migrations. Here, you explored models, fields, attributes, and keys. You are now able to describe
the relationship and similarities between models
and databases with tables, and demonstrate how to
create models in Django, focusing on the
different attributes. Furthermore, you can now summarize the concept
of migrations and how they are beneficial in web applications
through best practices, dealing with issues
and rolling back. You can discuss how migrations
can save a lot of time for development teams by separating the SQL away from the coding. There is no need to create SQL queries directly
against the database, or where to store these files so that other
developers can run them. Next, you explored Object
Relational Mapping, ORM, and how jangle uses it to create SQL queries against
the database. You also discovered the
query set API and how developers use it to save and retrieve data in the database. Following models and migrations, you learned about
models and forums. You were introduced to Django's
rich framework for forms and how to manipulate form data to extract
and send information. You are now able to showcase
setting up a model with different data types and how they are mapped from a
standard body request. You also exercised
creating forms by using the forum API and some of
its inbuilt datatypes. Next, you focused on admin. This section introduced you to the Django admin and some
of its core features. You can demonstrate how to create and manage
users and groups directly from the admin panel to provide access to the
web applications. You also learned how
permissions work at the view, model, and controller
levels, and how they can be added using the
Django admin view. Lastly, you can set up users and add or
revoke permissions. Finally, you explore
database configuration. You are now able to showcase the different database
options that are available in Django with MySQLite and
MySQL as the main focus. You practice the steps
needed to set up the database configuration and SQLite database for
local development. Then you learned about
the configuration options for setting up a
MySQL database and exercised session of a
MySQL database connection and testing that
it's up and running. You're now familiar with models. More specifically, you can create models and
apply migrations. You can also use the query search API to
interact with the database and create forums by leveraging the form API to bind
data to objects. You familiarize yourself with the Django admin panel to add and control the permissions
of users and groups. Finally, you concluded
by setting up a MySQL database for
your Django app. Well done. You're making excellent progress through
your Django development.