Django is so popular because it's open source with a rich set of tools that allow for easy scalability and
rapid development. MySQL is one of the many
databases which Django supports. Recall that database has
helped store data from different sources that can be used for different purposes, such as adding
content to a webpage. The Django development
framework has internal support for connecting
with different databases. Previously, you learned that
Django uses something called an object-relational
mapper or ORM. ORM facilitates the mapping
of data between databases and the application
model without the need to write
any SQL queries. MySQL is a popular
database management system and can be used with Django when there is a heavy data load. Let's quickly recap some
of the features of MySQL. It's open source and
well-documented. It's reliable and quick as data storage is done
efficiently in memory. It's scalable and can work with small to vast amounts of data. Finally, it's secure and provides a layer
of security with encrypted password
protection that is flexible and verification based. It's important to know that before you begin
working with models, you need to have a
database installed. Django provides the
SQLite database by default and no
pre-installation is required. However, if you want to
use another database, you must install
and configure it. Let's now explore the
steps to install and configure MySQL within
a Django project. Before you can begin
using MySQL with Django, ensure that MySQL is
installed on your computer. Depending on the
operating system in use, you can use the
different site packages that are available on
the MySQL website. The examples in this
video refer to macOS. You can find
command-specific too in their operating systems from the additional reading at
the end of this lesson. For macOS, you can use a package manager such as Homebrew to manage
your installation. Begin by typing the command
brew install MySQL. This installs the
MySQL database. Next, go into MySQL to
access the databases. Note that there are specific
commands when using macOS. Now type the command
MySQL dash u root dash p. Dash u
refers to the username, whereas root dash
p is the password. Now press "Enter" to
action a password request. Notice that the password
entered here matches the password set for the root
inside the MySQL database. Inside the shell, go ahead
and type the command, show databases, and end your
query with a semicolon. This generates a list of all the MySQL databases
on your MySQL server. For example, create a
database called Feedback. To do this, type the command create database
feedback semicolon. Now run the show
databases command again. Now your list includes the new feedback database
you've just created. The next step is to create a
user for the Django project. Run a command
labeled create user, apostrophe, admin Django, apostrophe, identified by, apostrophe, password,
apostrophe, semicolon. The password is
the word password. Note that there may be variations to this
particular command, but this is one of the
simplified versions. Now press "Enter". Next, you enter the command to grant
permissions to the user. The final command here
is flush privileges. Now, the database
is ready to use. The next step is to install
a database connector. This is used to allow the MySQL database to
interact with the Django ORM. In this example, you'll
use MySQL client library. There are alternative
options you can use, such as any of the Python three database
connector libraries, that are compatible with Django. For now, exit the
MySQL shell and type the command pip3
install mysqlclient. Note that you may need to
install extra files that allow this specific library to work on this
operating system. Once the database and the database connector
are in place, go to the settings.py file
inside the My Project folder. Here, Django will reference information about the
database connection. To use MySQL, the database needs to be
in a specific format. Replace the database code
with that of the settings for MySQL and replace the
database name with feedback. It's important to know
that in this example, the database name is feedback. Always check the name of the database that you
want to connect to. Next, replace the user with admindjango and the
password with password. The final step
before you can use the database is to
run the migrations. Let's run the following
two commands. First, type the query Python3 manage.py make migrations,
and press "Enter". Next, type Python3
manage.py migrate. Notice the list of migrations
you've just performed. However, your view of this is limited because there are no
entries inside the database. In the absence of using MySQL database for the
majority of the course, it is always good
to know that there are alternatives available to the SQLite database
and these are installed by default
inside Django. In this video, you
learned how to set up a MySQL database
connection in Django.