When creating a Django project, the default configuration
uses an SQLite database. It is automatically set inside the file,
settings.py file. This means that you can directly start
working with the database immediately. SQLite is known as a user-friendly
zero configuration database. And there are many advantages to using it. You don't need to install anything to
support the database as it doesn't run as a server process. This means the database does not
need to be started or stopped, or require additional configuration files. As a result, this type of database
is suitable for small projects or rapid prototyping. Suppose you are developing projects
that need a quick test environment. In that case, SQLite is a solid option as it doesn't
require running a separate server. There may be occasions when a more
scalable robust database is needed. For example, when moving from
a development to a production environment. In this video, you will learn how to
configure database options to work with a MySQL database in a Django project. Django supports the use of many
databases with minimal configuration. These include PostgreSQL, MariaDB, MySQL, Oracle and SQLite. Among these PostgreSQL and
MySQL are most commonly used. Django has features to support each
database that make it easy to connect and work with. It provides a generic way to access
the different types of databases and a connection to a database is established
by knowing the type of database. Within this lesson, you will deal
with one of the most popular and widely used databases, MySQL. Let's begin by exploring how to set up
database connections to a MySQL database. To connect to a MySQL database, you need
to provide the address where the database is running, the port number and
the database name you wish to connect to. You also need a database driver which is
responsible for mapping all the models and translating Python queries into
SQL instructions via the model. To use MySQL, the driver or connector,
MySQL client needs to be installed. When you connect to a database,
the connection opens on each request and is kept open for a specific time. The connection is controlled by
the CONN_MAX_AGE parameter and represents a certain time before
the connection is automatically closed. To establish a connection, you must configure parameters under the
databases option of the settings.py file. By default,
the configuration is for SQLite. You can also use an options file for
MySQL to store the database connection credentials and you will
learn about it later in this lesson. The credentials can include the database
name, user name and password and are stored in a separate
configuration file. Inside the file settings.py,
the MySQL connection reference looks for the connection file in
the directory etc/mysql. And notice that this is not
within the Django project. This is a deliberate security measure. Okay, now that you know the steps
needed to connect to a MySQL database, let's explore database creation. While Django creates all the tables based
on the models you have from the migration scripts, the initial setup requires
you to manually create the database. Creating a database requires
a connection to the database itself and sufficient permissions for
authentication and authorization. It's important to remember that you must
keep the database secure by assigning security roles and
using strong user names and passwords. The data stored may contain end
users personal information. So keeping it private and
safe is of the utmost importance. As a developer, you need to be
aware of potential security risks. And one significant risk is the security
of the credentials of your database. Allowing someone to know or
access the user name and password of your database
can have major consequences. The database connection credentials are
only accessible on the virtual machine or server where the web
application is running. In this video, you learned how to
configure database options to work with a MySQL database in a Django project.