Cloud computing is an
on-demand solution that hosts applications on the Internet and makes them
accessible to everyone. It also enables people to
use the computing resources hosted by a cloud provider and generate solutions quickly. In this video you'll learn
more about cloud computing. Imagine you create an
application that takes a single computer eight hours to process. That's a long time. To save some time you
can either purchase a more powerful computer
or you can purchase more than one computer
and distribute the task across multiple computers
to solve it even quicker. But what will happen after
the solution is generated? Most likely the computers will sit idle until you
need them again. This kind of expense can
be very unrealistic, and you can avoid it by
leveraging cloud computing. That's because you can use the computing units in a
cloud provider on-demand. You use them for a
specified amount of time and you only have
to pay for what you use. This way you can use extremely powerful computers
with the latest CPUs, GPUs, massive
memory, and storage without needing to purchase physical computers that
are very expensive. Cloud computing providers offer different
computing resources that can be used to host applications or solve
a problem on-demand. There are different types
of cloud infrastructure that are used to deal with
different kinds of problems. Let's examine three of them. First is the public cloud,
which is for everyone. You can create an account and start using the service anytime. This cloud infrastructure works
in a pay as you go style. The public cloud providers host the servers and create
and maintain the network. You can use these
computing resources anytime and discard them
when your work is done, you will only be charged
for what you use. There are several benefits
to using the public cloud. Since these are mostly
managed services, you can spend more time creating and running
your application. It also has on-demand pricing
and quick availability. And another benefit
is scalability. You can quickly add
a computing unit or nodes to your infrastructure
to balance the loads. Some cloud providers even
support auto-scaling. This means they will automatically deploy
extra nodes when the traffic spikes
and then remove these nodes under average load. Starting an application on the
public cloud can be cheap. However, as your usage grows it can become
expensive over time. Second is the private cloud. Unlike public clouds which
are accessible to everyone, private clouds are not. It's a privately hosted
cloud infrastructure used by applications that deal with sensitive data that
require more security. A private cloud ensures that only authorized people
can access the system. At the same time it offers
everything necessary for internal applications to
scale and perform properly. A private cloud is for the most part a
tailored solution and comes with a subset of features compared to public
cloud providers. Its main benefits
are better security, control, scalability,
and reliability. But since everything is hosted
and managed by yourself, it can be costly to start with. Last is the hybrid cloud. It's a mixed cloud
infrastructure where a part of it is hosted on a private cloud and some services are hosted
on a public cloud. The public cloud
remains connected to the private clouds so that the application can
work correctly. The benefit of this type of
cloud is that it can be less expensive than a
private cloud because it also uses a public cloud. However, setting up a
hybrid cloud can be very complex and may
take a lot of time. In this video you learned about cloud computing and how it
can help you to reduce costs. You also learned about
public, private, and hybrid cloud infrastructures and their advantages
and disadvantages.