Now that you're familiar
with cloud computing, let's examine some key elements
and services offered by public Cloud providers and how they can benefit
your applications. First up are computing units. This is one of the
most popular services offered by public
Cloud providers. Computing units are
virtual machines available for
on-demand deployment. They are used to host a web application or run a
program to solve problems. You can pick
computing units from mainly two groups,
cores and memories. The cloud computing
units can be resized, which means you can upgrade
or downgrade the number of processing cores or
memory as needed. For complex programs like data analysis or
machine-learning, most Cloud providers offer a variety of processor
cores and memories. Some even offer use of GPUs. Since you're charged
only for what you use, you can deploy a powerful computing unit when you need it. Let it run as long as required, and then delete it. What's more, you can install your preferred
operating system and applications in these
Cloud computing units. Some of these computing units
come with volatile storage, which means everything
you store in it will be gone when
the machine reboots. In such cases, you must
always equipped you're computing unit with a
permanent storage solution. This will be covered
later in the course. Next is storage. As significant benefit of
using Cloud computing. You can purchase storage, keep your data as
long as you want, and then delete it
whenever necessary. Cloud computing providers offer storage solutions in a few ways. You can purchase
gigabytes or terabytes to store your application
files or personal data. It works just like a
regular hard disk, but the risk of data loss due to hardware fault is nearly zero. This is because Cloud providers automatically backup your
data in redundant storage. Another storage
solution offered by public Cloud providers is
called object storage. In object storage
you get an API to upload and download your
files, and that's all. You can store small or massive
files and object storage. What's more? You can also
make these files available to anyone for a certain amount of time with a timestamp signature. Cloud providers give you a unique URL to
access your file, and that link
automatically expires after the duration you
specified in the signature. Now let's move on to databases. Most public cloud
providers offer SQl, NoSQL or Time-series databases to store your application data. Examples of SQL or
MySQL, MariaDB, and PostgreSQL, and examples of NoSQL are MongoDB,
Cassandra and DynamoDB. Whereas examples of Time-series are Influx dB and Prometheu. Tuning a database can be
tricky and scaling it can be tedious and requires a lot of effort and
careful supervision. With cloud computing,
these issues disappear. Cloud providers offer fully
managed database solutions compliant with popular
database engines like MySQL, MariaDB, or PostgreSQL, so no change in the
application code is necessary. Since these are
managed solutions, you can allow these databases to scale automatically as they grow and they'll be
able to withstand substantial traffic loads
without extra effort. Some Cloud providers also offer in-memory
database solutions, which are great for caching or super-fast data operations. Cloud providers can also offer specialized solutions
to deal with huge amounts of
data or big data. With Cloud computing, you can deploy a single database node or multiple ones and
just a few seconds and link them to
your applications. Finally, there's
machine-learning which requires powerful computing units and GPU for data modeling
and training. But this can be very exciting, expensive if you purchase
physical hardware. However, with cloud computing and its on-demand pricing model, you can start using machine
learning at a cheaper cost. Cloud providers offer the latest hardware
and software solutions that are efficient
for machine learning, natural language processing,
voice processing, and so on. For machine-learning, Cloud Computing is a perfect
and affordable solution. Cloud Computing is an
excellent solution that allows you to
spend more time on application
development instead of managing hardware
and infrastructure. In this video, you learned about some essential
services offered by Cloud computing
providers and how they can help your application
development life cycle.