You've reached the end of this
coding interview preparation course. You've worked hard to get here and accumulated a lot of
knowledge along the way. You've made great progress
on your developer journey. You should now understand the unique and challenging aspects of
the coding interview. Specifically you should be well prepared
with some interview soft skills that would help you to be ready when you go for
your coding interview. The foundations of computer science and
some problem solving methods to apply to any challenge you may face
in an interview scenario. Following your completion of this
course encoding interview prep, you should now be able to prepare for
the interview process, offer strategy and tips for successful interviewing. And openly discuss the emotional
components of the process. The key skills measured in the graded
assessment, revealed your knowledge and understanding of data structures in
the context of coding interviews, the concepts and usage of algorithms. How to visualize an algorithm and
combining new and previously learned coding
patterns to solve problems. Congratulations, you've successfully
completed all of the courses in this program. At this stage, you may want to consider
registering for another course, specialization or certificate pathway. Certifications provide
globally recognized and industry endorsed evidence of
mastering technical skills. Whether you're just starting out as
a technical professional, a student or a business user that
courses you have completed. And the range of practical projects you
have in your portfolio will prove your knowledge and ability as a developer. These conserve to demonstrate your
skills to potential employers. And not only does it show employers that
you are self driven and innovative, but it also speaks volumes about you as
an individual as well as your newly obtained knowledge. You've done a great job so far and
you should be proud of your progress. The experience you gained so
far will show potential employers that you are motivated, capable and
not afraid to learn new things. Again, congratulations on
finishing this course and good luck with the rest of
your educational journey.