Let's try to solve a problem that may
occur for managers or to restaurants, because the managers are busy
running the restaurants, they have limited time to deal
with the needs of employees. The current system for paying wages
requires managers to update each other, every time an employee requests payment. Because this is cumbersome, they would
like to implement an automated approach. So what can be done, fortunately there's a way to reduce
the number of steps using instances. By the end of this video, you'll be able
to explain what instance variables and methods are. You'll also know how to use them to
change the state of an instant object. So let's write some code to help
those busy restaurant managers. Let's start a new file
called payment_info.py, in this file I'll create
the class pay slips and initialize three variables in its
called name, pay status and amount. I start by typing class pay slips, and
then on the next line I call an init function with def double underscore init,
and then select the triggered suggestion. For the variables I type each one in
the format self.variable equals variable. Next I'll create two functions,
one to display the status of the payment, another to update the status. The first function is written as
death pay with self in parentheses, followed by self.payment
equals yes on the next line. The second function is def status,
and contains an if else statement. If self.payment doubly equals yes,
return self.name plus is paid plus self.amount with
str appended to the beginning. The second part of the statement is else
return, self.name plus is not paid yet. Finally, let's create instances
of this class for the employees. I'll call them Nathan and Roger. I typed the first instance Nathan
equals pay slips and in parentheses, Nathan for name, no for
payment and 1000 for amount. For roger I copy and
paste this instance and set the values to Roger No and
3000 respectively. I also need to make sure to pass these
values inside the in its method, so I type name, payment and
amount after self. Now I'm ready to call the instant
method status to check the status of the payments. I write a print statement for
Nathan.status parentheses and for Roger.status parentheses. When I run the code, the output all appears on one line
which is not very presentable. I add a new line character between
the items and the print statement, which is backslash n,
this time the output is much cleaner. The output states that neither Nathan nor
Roger have been paid, but let's say that one manager
decides to pay Nathan. So I'll use the pay function
to update the status. Remember that the pay function
is set up to update the value of the payment variable,
I type Nathan.pay parentheses and then copy and
paste the last print statement. Above this line I type another print
statement with the string after payment. I run the code once more and it now tells me that Nathan was paid 1000
whereas Roger still has not been paid. That's a demonstration of
instance methods in action. Now I'll describe the code
to you in more detail. Now let's discuss what happened in
that coding example in more detail. The two instance objects which are Nathan
and Roger each have their own states. You may have noticed that when the
instance method pay was called to change the state of Nathan,
Roger was not affected. This is because the method inside
the class is not affected. Rather it provides a separate
blueprint to each instance, which can then be updated for
that instance only. In the coding example I didn't print
the variable values after calling the pay function, but if I did it would show
that the payment instance variable for Nathan changed from no to yes,
while Roger remained no. Now let's imagine that this code is
a basis for an online payment system. It would allow either manager to click
on the paid button for an employee, which then updates that employee status. No more back and
forth calls, in this video, you learned how to use instance variables
and methods to change the state of an instance object without
affecting any other instances