Classes have the ability to combine data and functionality, which is a very useful
feature when you are coding. By the end of this video, you'll be able to
explain what classes, instances, and objects
are in Python. You'll also be able
to create a class, instantiate it and access
its variables and methods. You may have also
heard of classes discussed in terms of
attributes and behaviors. In general, attributes refer to variables declared in a class, while behaviors are associated with the methods in the class. Creating a class
creates a new type of object from which you
can create instances. An important thing
to keep in mind is that everything in Python is an object or derived
from the object class. To demonstrate how
this all works, I'll create a class that I
can then derive objects from. In a new VS Code file, I first type the keyword class followed by the name
my class in the colon. I do need to take one more step so that Python doesn't
throw an error. That is the type, the pass
keyword on the next line. The pass keyword
plays the role of a placeholder when nothing
needs to be executed. In practice, this
tells Python that I won't do anything with
this class just yet. Next, let's create an
object for this class. I create a variable called MyClass and then
assign the class to it by typing equals my class
followed by parentheses. If I run this code,
the output shows that it has executed
without errors. However, just to check that
it's working as expected, let's add a print
statement to the class. That would be print, followed by the string Hello in parentheses. When I run the code again, the word Hello appears
in the output. Let me clear the terminal
before continuing. You may have noticed that I use the same name for both
the class and its object, but the object name can
really be anything. For example, if I
change the object name to myc and run the
code once more, it will execute the
same as before. Everything I've typed is part of the instantiation
process in Python, which involves three key steps. One, class definition, two creating a new instance, and three initializing
the new instance. Since everything in
Python is an object, it makes sense to follow naming conventions to make things
less confusing later. In this case, I
have my class for the class object and myc
for the instance object. There is a third type of object
called the method object, which you can use to call a method whenever it's needed. Classes mainly perform
two kinds of operations, attribute references
and instantiation. I've already written an
example of the latter, so let's try building an
attribute reference this time. First, I create a variable a for the class object and
assign it a value of five. To print this variable, I first need to
refer to the class. Under the instance object, I type print and
then my class.a. When I run the code, it
returns five in the output. To confirm the class
reference is necessary, I delete my class from
the print statement and run the code again and
Python throws an error. I'll correct the code and
put my class back in. Let me clear the terminal
quickly before continuing. You know what happens if you
reference a class object, but what if you reference
an instance object? Let's find out by typing
a print statement for myc.a and then running it. In the output, I get five, which shows that
attribute reference still works with
instance objects. Finally, let's finish up by creating a method
inside this class. I'll use the def keyword
and follow it with hello, a pair of parentheses
and a colon. On the next line, I type a print statement for
the string hello world. I'll also delete the
first print statement to avoid confusion. To call this method, I add a new print
statement at the end of the document for myc.hello, which uses the instance object. This should work just
as I successfully called a variable through
an instance object. Running the code
results in an error. Methods are not quite as simple. Fortunately, I can
resolve this by adding the keyword self within the parentheses of the method
as defined in the class. Running the code again
produces the words" Hello, world!" in the output. You'll also find the
word "None" printed below as there is no return value from
the given function. That's a brief
demonstration of classes, instances, and objects. I created a class, then I was able to
instantiate it and access its variables
and methods.