Code reusability is the use of existing code to
build new software. Reusability is a core
programming concept. By the end of this video, you'll not only
be able to create a class and instantiate
it with variables and methods but you'll also discover how referencing
the same variables and methods in
separate instances can produce different outcomes, meaning that the
code is reusable. I'll start by creating
a new file called recipes.py where I'll also
create a class called recipe. Before continuing, let's also explore two special
methods in Python. The first one is the new method, which is responsible
for creating and returning a new empty object. To write it, I start
with the def keyword, followed by double
underscore new. It then appears as a suggestion, so I click on it to
fill out the rest. The CLS here is not a keyword, but rather a convention. It acts as a placeholder for passing the class as
its first argument, which will be used for
creating the new empty object. The second method
is the init method, which is similar to
what is known as a constructor in some other
programming languages. It takes the objects created using the new method along with other arguments to initialize the new object being created. I write it with the def
double underscore init and then choose the first
suggestion that pops up. The init method takes the new object as
its first argument. The self keyword here
is another convention. It has no function
itself but serves as a placeholder for self-reference
by the instance object. Let's delete the
two example methods and then write some code that demonstrates how to
use the state of the object to your advantage. I begin with an init method, which I then use to
initialize a few values. I do this for the value dish by typing self.dish equals dish. I then do the same
for the values, items, and time. Before moving forward, I want
to check that the arguments in the initializer will
match those of my instances. To do so, I add dish, items, and time after self. Imagine a real-world
scenario where a restaurant chef
wants information about the recipes
they have been using, let's write a class that
will help them with that. I have the variables
dish, items, and time in which items will
hold the recipe ingredients. I now write a
function to produce a string out of
this information. I type def contents and
then self in parentheses. On the next line, I write a print statement for the string the plus self.dish plus has plus self.items plus and takes plus self.time
plus min to prepare. Here, we'll use the
backslash character to force a new line and continue the
string on the following line. For this to print correctly, I need to convert the self.items and self.time
references to strings by appending STR at the beginning and encasing
each reference in parentheses. Now that I have a class setup, let's use it to create
a pizza instance. I write this as
pizza equals recipe, opening parenthesis,
the string pizza comma, opening square bracket, cheese, comma, bread,
comma, tomato, closing square bracket comma, and 45 to represent the time followed by the
closing parenthesis. I also want a pasta object. Let's copy and
paste the code for the pizza object and change
the object name to pasta, the ingredients to
penne and sauce, and the preparation time to 55. Now that I have a class
and two instances, let's see if I can access the instance attributes and methods. I write two print statements for pizza.items and pasta.items. When I run the code,
I find that despite passing the same function
and variable items, the two instances produce
different contents. Next, let's try printing the instance method
contents over pizza. Before we move
forward, let's clear the terminal so we can more clearly see what
the output will be. I type another
print statement for pizza.contents and
empty parentheses. I run the code once more
and the output uses the class method to print a line stating the pizza has cheese, tomato, and bread and takes
45 minutes to prepare. That's a demonstration
of creating a class and instantiating
it with variables and methods then referencing
the same variables and methods in separate instances to yield different outcomes.