In this video, you'll learn about abstract
classes and methods. If you have an abstract class, you can ensure the functionality of every class that
is derived from it. For example, a vehicle
could be an abstract class. You can't create a vehicle, but you can derive a car, a tractor, or a boat
from a vehicle. The methods we put in
the abstract class are guaranteed to be present in the derived class because they must
be implemented. If a vehicle has a
turn on engine method, then we assure that
any method calls to a derived class that is looking for turn on
engine will find it. This could be for reasons
of interoperability, consistency, and avoiding
code duplication in general. In object oriented programming, the abstract class is a type of class for which you cannot
create an instance. Python also does not support
abstraction directly. You need to import a module just to define an
abstract class. Furthermore, methods
in an abstract class needs to be defined before
they can be implemented. With all these limitations, one might wonder why you would use abstract
classes at all. One of the key advantages
is the ability to hide the details of implementation without sacrificing
functionality. Implementation in
abstract classes can be done in two ways. One is that, as base abstract classes lack
implementation of their own, the methods must be implemented
by the derived class. Another possibility is that the super function can be used. But that's a topic
for another time. For now, let's focus
on the module for defining an abstract class. You may not be familiar
with modules right now, but they will be covered
in more detail later. For now, it's okay
just to follow along. The module is known as the
abstract base class or ABC, and needs to be imported
with some code. After that, you can create a class called
SomeAbstractClass and pass in the ABC module so
that it inherits that class. The next step is to import the abstract method decorator
inside the same module. A decorator is a function that
takes another function as its arguments and gives a
new function as its output. It's denoted by the at sign. You may not be familiar with
decorators, but for now, it's enough to know that
decorators are like helper functions that add functionality to an
already existing function. Finally, here you'll define an abstractmethod
which cannot be called on an object
of this class. You will be able to
call this method over objects of classes that
inherit from this class. Similarly, we can define abstract methods with
the help of what we call an abstract method decorator present
inside the same module. Any given abstract class can consist of one or more
abstract methods. However, a class that has abstract class as its
parents cannot be instantiated unless you override all the abstract methods
present in at first. With that in mind, imagine a scenario in which
an employer wants to collect donations from employees for a
charitable cause. With your new found knowledge, let's write some code
to make that possible. First, I import the ABC module
and it's abstractmethod, then I create the employee
abstract class called abstractmethod to define
a method called donate. Note that there's no implementation
to this method here. After that, I create the class donation which derived
from the abstract class. Note that this class also
overrides the abstractmethod. I write an implementation
for the donate function, which takes a user inputs, stores it in a variable
a, and returns it. Next I create two
employee instances called John and Peter and call the function
over each of them. I also create a list amounts, to which the returned
values will be appended. Finally, I have a print
statement for amounts which will give the value of
the total donations from both employees. In this video, you learned
about abstract classes and methods and how to
implement them in your code.