Well done. You've
reached the end of this module on
programming paradigms. In this module, you explored
procedural programming, functional programming, and
object-oriented programming. We started the module
by saying that procedural programming
is considered the easiest and a basic stepping stone to object-oriented
programming, and the first choice
for new developers. Next, you explored
functional programming, which in essence is a
programming paradigm that utilizes creating
functions for clean, consistent, and
maintainable code. Lastly, you learned that
object-oriented programming is about creating objects that contain both data and methods. These concepts should
now make sense to you. It's now time to recap the key lessons you learned and the skills that you gained. With that in mind, let's summarize the key points
you learned in this module. You should now be
able to describe the concept of
procedural programming. Describe what algorithms are, and how they can be
used to solve problems. Identify how algorithmic
complexity is calculated, and recognize how
algorithmic complexity can help in improving
performance. You should also be able to
describe Big O notation. Explain what functional
programming is, explain how pure functions are used in functional programming, and explain recursion and how it can be used
to solve problems. What you've learned,
however, did not stop here. You should therefore
also be able to use different methods to
reverse a string in Python. Explain the difference between the map and filter functions. Explain object-oriented
programming and the four concepts
it is built upon, and describe the
relationship between classes and instances in Python. Finally, having studied the remaining key
points in this module, you should now be able
to create classes, instantiate classes, access
their variables and methods, and change the state
of intense objects by using instance
variables and methods. This module gave a
comprehensive introduction to different programming
paradigms in Python. This is essential knowledge
that prepares you to be able to create even
better programming code.