Up to this point, you've explored class relationships
that were relatively straight forward. But what happens when things get complex? How will you know which classes
inherit from which, fortunately method resolution order or MRO provides rules
that can help make sense of that. By the end of this video,
you'll know how to explain the basic rules of method order, resolution and
how they apply to inheritance classes. Explain the concept of code
linearization with respect and multiple inheritance and deploy method
order, resolution functions in python. You've likely encountered some examples
of single inheritance where a child class only inherits from a single parent class. But it's important to know that
python has many types of inheritance. The categorization types are based
on the number of parents and child classes as well as the hierarchical
order, including simple inheritance. There are broadly four
types of inheritance. The first type is called
a simple inheritance, which you've already dealt with. There is also multiple inheritance,
which involves a child class inheriting from more than one parent
next is multi level inheritance, which is inheritance taking
place on several levels. Then you have hierarchical inheritance, which concerns how several sub
classes inherit from a common parent. And finally, you could say that there is
fifth type called hybrid inheritance, which mixes characteristics of the others. As these inheritance types demonstrate
inheritance becomes increasingly complex as the number of classes in a project
grow and become more interdependent. So how did developers solve
this issue with the use of MRO determines the order
in which a given method. Or attributes is passed through in
a search of the hierarchy of classes for its resolution or in other words,
from where it belongs, the order of the resolution is
called linearization of a class. And MRO defines the rules that's follows. The default order in python is
bottom to top, left to right when imagining the inheritance of these
python classes in a tree structure. Let's take the simplest
example of single inheritance. The object is first searched in
the class of that object and then in its super class. What about in an example where classes
is inheriting from two classes, let's say Z is inheriting
from classes X and Y. In this instance,
the MRO will be Z, Y, and then X. In other words, the MRO works its way
bottom to top and then from left to right. But things become much more complicated
when more levels are added to the hierarchy. So developers rely on
algorithms to build MROs. Old style classes used in depth,
first search algorithm or DFS from python version three onwards,
python versions have moved to the new style of classes that rely
on the C three linearization algorithm. The implementation of the C three
linearization algorithm is complex and beyond the scope of this lesson,
but for now, here's an overview of a few
rules that it follows. The algorithm follows monotonicity,
which broadly means that an inherited property cannot
skip over direct parent classes. It also follows the inheritance
graph of the class and the super class is visited only after
visiting the methods of the local classes. >> This logic will make more sense
later when you explore more complex class relationships in a future lesson. Next let's take a moment to explore some
methods of finding the MRO of a class. First, I'll begin with the demonstration
of the MRO attributes or function. Let's take a multilevel
inheritance example comprised of three classes ,class A,
class B and class C. Class A is the parent class with B and
C the respective child classes. In other words, be inherits from A and
C inherits from B. When I print the return for
calling the MRO function over class Ce the output indeed confirms
that this is the order that is followed. So why is this important? Well, imagine the class A has
a variable num with value of five and then Class B also has a number variable
with a value of nine Here, the morrow function tells you quickly that class C
will inherit the nine value from class B. Finally, let's examine one more
function which is the help function. If I take the code from earlier and replace the MRO function in the print
statement with the help function. It provides a much more detailed output
with MRO information at the top. It also contains information
about the data descriptors and types used inside the code. In this video, you received a brief
introduction to method resolution order and how it affects inheritance
in different scenarios. These are both very broad topics, but
hopefully it helps you understand the complexity of code that
is possible in python.