When instantiating
objects from a class, you may find that
the class is missing some properties that
you use frequently. In that case, you
could decide to make a new class that
replicates the first one, but also adds a few
more properties. It would be cumbersome to
write everything from scratch, but thanks to inheritance,
you don't have to. By the end of this video, you'll become familiar with
inheritance in terms of child classes being derived
from a parent class. Inheritance is a core concept in object-oriented
programming generally, and in particular, in Python, and it's a major part
of code reusability. You may know that everything
in Python is an object, but let's explore that
idea more closely. It specifically means that
every class in Python inherits from a built-in
base class called objects, which is found in
built-ins dot objects. In other words, a
class declaration such as Someclass with empty parentheses
implies some class with object as its arguments. When speaking of
class derivation, the originating class is
known as the parent class, super class, or base class. The class which inherits
from it is the child class, subclass, or derived class. Any named pairing is acceptable. But the important thing to
know is that the child class extends the attributes and
behaviors of its parent class. This allows you
to do two things. You can add new properties to
the child class and you can modify inherited properties in the child class without
affecting the parents. Now, let's explore an example of how this
is done in Python. Here you have a parent class P, which holds the variable
a with a value of seven. Then there is the
empty child class C, in which class P is
passed as an argument. Finally, a c represents an
instance of child class C. If you write a
print statement for c.a and run the code, the output is seven. Even though C itself is empty, it still holds the attributes
inherited from P. Keep in mind that any changes in the parent class will also
affect any child classes. Now, that you have an idea
of how inheritance works, let's explore an example that demonstrates the
flexibility it provides. I begin by creating a new
file called employment.py, and my first step is to
create a parent class called employees where I'll define two variables for
first and last names. I do this by typing class Employees colon
and on a new line, def__init to trigger and select the init
method suggestion. For the first variable, I type self.name equals
name on a new line, and for the second, I
advance another line and type self.last equals last. I then add name and last to the init argument on line
2 after the word self. Next, I'll create two
child classes that both extends the Employee class. The first one I create
is supervisors. To call the Employees class, I type class Supervisors, open parenthesis, Employees, close parenthesis, and a colon. I then need to modify
the init method of the Supervisors
class so that I can add another variable
named password. Again, I trigger and
selects the init method, but this time, it already includes the name
and last variables. By calling the Employees class, the super method has automatically
been applied to access the variables there and initialize them within
the Supervisors class. I proceed with adding
the third variable, password, inside of
the init method. I then make it an instance
variable with the line self.password
equals password. Now, I'll write another
child class called Chefs. Again, I extended
the Employees class by adding Employees as a
method inside this class. I want this one to contain a new function called
leave_request, so I type def
leave_request and then self and days as the
variables in parentheses. The purpose of the leave_request
function is to return a line that specifies the
number of days requested. To write this, I type return, the string, may I
take a leave for, plus str, open parenthesis, the word day's,
close parenthesis, plus another string, days. Now that I have all
the classes in place, I'll create a few instances
from these classes. One for a supervisor and
two others for chefs. First I type Adrian
equals supervisors, followed by the values
Adrian and A in parentheses. I can then copy and paste
this instance two more times to serve as a template
for the chefs instances. The first chef is Emily and will hold the
values Emily and E, while the second chef, Juno, has the values Juno and J. Finally, as an instance
of the Supervisors class, Adrian needs another value
for the password variable, so I'll assign apple here. Next, let's call
the instance method over Emily and pass
a value to it. She wants to request
three days off, so I type print emily.leave_request
and the number 3. I'm also going to add another print statement that will check the value of the instance variable over the
supervisor Adrian. I type print adrian.password. The third print statement prints the value of Emily's
name variable. Now, I run the code and
get the following outputs. The words, may I take leave for three days from the
first print statement, the word apple from
the second one, and the word Emily from
the third print statement. Note that both the
instance variables and methods inside
the individual inherited classes are present along with the variables
from the parent class. In this video, you've
learned how inheritance in Python helps to
make code reusable, organized, and less redundant.