The success of an interview is almost
fully dependent on how you communicate with the interviewers. You wish to convey your suitability and the company would like to find a candidate
that is appropriate for the role. In this video, you will learn about verbal
and physical or non verbal communication. Never underestimate the power
of first impressions. It is important that every interaction
with you as a potential employee reflects the capabilities that you will
bring to the organization. The first non verbal sign that
you can show is punctuality. It is good practice to arrive at least ten
minutes before the scheduled meeting is supposed to start, particularly if you
are unsure of the specific venue where the interview will be conducted. It takes time to navigate a building and
you wish to appear composed and ready for the interview,
not out of breath and flustered. Over the course of the interview,
ensure that you maintain eye contact and actively listen to the questions
that are being asked. Dress appropriately for the meeting. Generally, a job interview calls for you
to wear professional or business attire. Make sure your clothes are clean and neat, that shows respect and
reflects positively on yourself. Finally, maintain a good posture and
refrain from squirming and needlessly touching the face or
wringing the hands. While being nervous about and
during a meeting is understandable, these gestures may unintentionally convey a
sense that you don't feel up for the task. A great way to settle the nerves is to
have done your due diligence prior to the meeting. Make sure you understand what the job
entails and what the company does and stands for. Although it is important to understand
the importance of nonverbal communication, verbal communication is equally important. You need to be able to
speak to your interviewers. A good indicator of how
to conduct yourself in an interview is to observe
the interviewers listen carefully. They will lead with questions to see
if you fit the required skills and personality profile. Typically, an interviewer will aim for
the 80 20 rule, speaking for 20% of the time and allowing you to
present yourself for the other 80%. So, allow the interviewer
to direct the question to you completely before answering. Use clear and
concise language in your answers. The temptation, particularly if you have
done diligent preparation is to try and respond to a question with
everything you know on the topic. This may lead to some rambling. A better answer is one that
stays on topic and allows for the opportunity for further questions. A good interviewer will follow up with
related questions so this allows for the conversation to flow. Refrain from exaggerating your abilities
or being negative towards yourself. Be careful not to use emotive terms
that can convey negative attitudes about yourself. For example, rather than saying,
I failed at that task, you could say that task was challenging
but provided me with some ideas for future areas of research to explore. Additionally, avoid excessive slang
cursing or inappropriate humor. A good methodology to follow
when conducting an interview is the star method. Initially the interviewer will attempt
to make you feel welcome by giving you an opportunity to talk about yourself,
what is on your CV? What do you know about the company or
the role? As the interview progresses, the discussion will focus more on your
abilities and suitability for the role. It is important that you can
convey why you are a good fit. Typically, questions will
focus on the business needs, either technologies that are being used or
problems that have had to be overcome. The interviewer wants to
know how you would respond to issues that arise when
engaged with the job. Therefore try to answer
questions using the STAR method. Include the following four points
when answering a question. The situation, the task,
the action and lastly the result. Here are some examples to
demonstrate the method more clearly. What is the context of the situation? What is the project and
what are the challenges faced? Looking at the task, what would your
responsibilities and assignments be? What actions will you take to rectify or
address the challenges? What are the results or
outcomes of your actions? How did taking this
approach impact the result? Using this approach as a template for an
answer will give depth to your responses. It provides a workable framework for
an answer. It also gives the interviewer a chance to
respond with more related questions on areas you feel comfortable discussing. Let's recap what you have
learned in this video. An interviewer will be on the lookout for candidates that can
clearly convey a concept. Your first task is to communicate
why you are suitable for the role. This is done verbally and non-verbally. Finally, the STAR method is a very
efficient framework for engaging with technical questions that will arise
over the course of an interview. In this video,
you have learned that verbal and non-verbal communication
is key during an interview. In any given role in a company, you may
have to deal with the stakeholders, whether it be complications
with the role or why a given solution is
the optimal path to take. So, take what you have learned
about communication and apply the principles with confidence.