A technical interview
is where you demonstrate your
competency to code. Normally, you would have
completed a screening core and demonstrated that
your soft skills are suitable for the company. Soft skills relate to your ability to conduct
yourself socially. This includes
communicating clearly, having a good work ethic, and that your presentation aligns with the company values. The technical interview is
to determine that you are technically capable of the
responsibilities of the role. In this video, you will learn how to approach the
technical interview, when going for coding interview, it will help you to keep the
following steps in mind; prepare to succeed, solve the problem
conceptually first, employ appropriate tools, and lastly, optimize
the solution. Doing a deep dive
into these concepts will help you understand
how to apply the method. Firstly, prepare to succeed. Many candidates might feel some trepidation at doing
a technical interview. What happens if a question
is asked and my mind blanks? Fortunately, there
are steps that you can take to
prepare for success. Failing to prepare is
preparing to fail. Solve the problem
conceptually first. Before employing a solution, it is a good idea to first have a clear picture of the question and what the
answer will look like. Take some time to
ensure that you are clear on what is being asked. An interviewer
will have no issue with you seeking
clarification from the onset. If there is a
whiteboard, then use it, jot down the major
points of the problem before outlining a
potential solution. Here is an excellent opportunity to show your ability to reason a problem using pseudocode before writing a
single line of code. Demonstrating your ability to reason out a problem
is halfway to it. Remember, one can always
be taught to code and ability for problem-solving is a much sought-after ability. Be vocal as you assess the problem and show the
interviewers how you engage with
problem-solving and why you elected one
approach over another. It can be a big help if you can equate the problem with
one you already know. Later in the course, there is a video on the
practice of divide and conquer. This is a good opportunity
to employ that. Breaking the problem
into smaller ones can help to solve a seemingly
complex problem. If there is an additional
time constraint and do exceed the allowed time, you will still be able to show
functional chunks of code. Employ appropriate tools. The types of problems presented in a coding interview will have to be completed during
the interview time thus, the solutions will not be excessively
complicated in nature. They are designed to test your
problem-solving ability on a microcosmic level and your awareness of
the available tools. Consider the classical
count the socks problem. You are given an array that
represents sock colors. Yellow socks are
represented by one, blue socks by two, red socks by three, green socks by four, and lastly, orange
socks by five. Sock colors equal the
numbers as explained, namely 1,2,2,1,1,3,5,1,4, and 4. Determine how many pairs of
the same color socks exist? There are four 1's which equates to two pairs
of yellow socks, three and five
represent odd socks. Although it is a red
and orange sock, they don't have matching
socks to form pairs. There are two 2's and two 4's, which each represent a pair
of blue and green socks. To solve this
problem succinctly, you can utilize an
appropriate data structure. Later in this course, you will review data structures. One video outlines how a dictionary stores
key value pairs. A solution would be to use the sock colors as
keys and the count as values then iterate over the dictionary and
retrieve all odd numbers, which indicates the
presence of any odd socks. While there are many programmatic
ways of solving this, the use of existing
structures minimizes the code required and
demonstrates familiarity with fundamental
building blocks. When possible, always utilize existing approaches rather than attempting to implement
manual solutions. In addition to familiarizing yourself with staple structures, review common sorting
and searching algorithms before engaging
in any technical interviews. It is good practice to
optimize your code. That means writing
or rewriting code, so a program uses the
least possible memory or disk space and minimize the CPU time or
network bandwidth. Coding the solution is a good step towards a
respectable solution. Ensure you make time
to optimize your code. Another concept you'll meet in this course is time
and space complexity. Can you demonstrate to
the interviewer that you understand these
crucial concepts? Put simply, it is a
way of measuring how fast and how much space
your solution will take. When presenting your answer, outline your solution's time and space complexity and then
see if you can improve. Identify any repeat
or overlapping code. Demonstrate that you can modularize this code
into a function that is callable repeatedly and
reuse code when possible. An often repeated principle
for good programming is dry. Don't repeat yourself. It is the idea to
only say a thing once in code and reuse
as often as needed. Additionally, if
there are portions of your code that are
no longer required as a result of modularizing
or as a result of an avenue of thought that was
not completed, remove it. Avoid excessive compiler calls. If you were searching
for a value in an array, terminate the loop when
the item is found. A very achievable
optimization on your code is to include
a return statement when a value is found or to use a loop that is
dependent on a Boolean. As soon as a result is found, the loop can be terminated. This increases
overall efficiency and reduces time complexity. Space complexity is all about being clever
with memory usage. Whenever you can, avoid creating more
variables than needed. In this video, you learned about some approaches that can be used regardless of the
challenge presented. Even if you're not familiar with the problem or don't achieve result in
the time allotted, always strive to demonstrate your reasoning and
best-practice approaches. Prepare for technical
interviews by doing practice solutions to
online problems and when possible employ a
similar methodology to each challenge so that regardless
of the challenge faced, you're working from a
comfortable framework. A coding interview can
appear like a daunting task. There will always be elements
of the unknown involved and your desire to succeed may add
some pre-interview nerves. Just stay calm and think
logically. Good luck.