When building web applications, developers and development teams have two choices with the code. Build everything
themselves, or use something called a web
application framework. You can think of a web application
framework as a toolkit containing all the components needed for application
development. By using a framework, developers and
development teams can focus on the application's
unique features, instead of spending
time developing features common to
all applications. For example, developing code for user login and
authentication, or building an admin dashboard. In this video, you will be given an overview of the
Django framework. You will also learn about
where Django is used in the real world and the types of web applications that use it. Django is an open source
web development framework. It's written in Python
and it was first created for a newspaper
publisher web application. As a result, it's
excellent for building projects that require high
volumes of text content, media files and heavy traffic. The open source
nature of Django has resulted in its rapid
growth and adaptation, which has resulted
in its usage for a wide variety of
web applications. The Django framework allows
easy integration with many tools and languages with support from other
Python libraries. Much of the success
of a web framework relies on its ability
to provide a robust, secure, adaptable and
scalable functionalities. Django caters to all of these requirements and provides
features like templates, libraries and APIs, which are all easily
manageable and scalable. Along with the
publishing industry, Django is also a popular
choice for eCommerce, health care, finance, transport, travel, social media
and much more. Its power lies in its ability
to separate features, which is helpful for
organizations that need to create projects using
more than one framework. For example, developers can create a back end framework with Django that can connect to a front end framework
via an API. Organizations are then free to choose whatever front
end framework they like, such as react or react
native from Meta. On the back end, developers can make use of powerful features. These include an email
system for notifications, data analysis tools, admin dashboards and
development tools for online marketplaces
and booking systems. As a result, it's
no surprise that the Django framework
is the choice of some of the world's
leading companies and internet giants across
various sectors. These include the areas of machine learning and
artificial intelligence, scalable web applications, software as a service
applications. Over the top media platforms and industries like shopping, event management,
news and publishing. Let's explore each
of these areas now in a little more detail. First is the domain of machine learning and
artificial intelligence. Developers can use Django
to deploy machine learning algorithms that can be made available with the help of APIs, application programming
interfaces, RPCs, remote procedure
calls and WebSockets. Don't worry about
these terms for now. You will learn about
them in the course. Django can handle
many API end points, each of which can have
several ML models. Django also enables
fast integration and deployment of these models. Next is scalable
web applications. An important reason
why Django is so popular is its ease
of scalability. It's common for many
web applications and tech companies to start
on a small scale, but soon expand rapidly. For example, an organization building
a social media app. Many popular social media apps
like Instagram from Meta, use Django to meet these rising demands of memory
and resource management. The principle of scalability is equally helpful for
web applications, where the size of the app's
user base is unknown. It critical factor of an
app's ability to scale is the ability to provide fast and efficient traffic
management for its users. For this reason,
Django is popular for applications such as social
media, magazines and blogs. Most applications
that are built on the web provides some
form of service. For Software as a Service
or SaaS applications. This can mean platforms that provide things
like data storage, app stores and version
control systems. For example, Django is
a popular choice for Cloud-storage
applications because it provides something called
asynchronous views. This allows the application
to run different services concurrently instead of waiting in the queue to
complete each service, significantly increasing the
application's performance. Finally, let's explore over the top or OTT media platforms, that provide audio and
video streaming services. OTT platforms have
grown in popularity recently and Django is often
used to meet their needs. It's important to know
that Django is not just limited to the services and sectors mentioned in this video. However, it's generally
considered that Django is more suitable
for large projects, because it provides
good fault tolerance. Also its open source
nature is inherently free, drastically reducing
company's costs. Also the ease of
adaptation, robustness, supportive open-source
community, comprehensive documentation and security make Django popular. Ultimately, developers and
organizations favorite Django because just like Python, it helps them avoid
reinventing the wheel. In this video, you were
given an overview of the Django framework
and why it's favored for building
web applications. You also learned about
where Django is used in the real-world and the types of web applications that use it.