Hello and welcome to this
course on the Django framework. Many of the activities you do every
day can be entirely performed online. You can use applications on your phone,
computer, tablet or other devices to access the web. In many web applications, the data is
stored in a database and this data can be accessed on the web server by
a programming language such as Python. Once the data is retrieved, it can be then sent to the end
users inside web pages using HTML. As an aspiring developer,
you have some existing knowledge and skills with these technologies. Now is the time to level up these skills
by combining them to create a dynamic web application using
the Django framework. Django is an open-source web framework
written in Python that is used to build large scale back
end web applications. To work with Django you will need
a good working knowledge of databases, Python, HTML and CSS. However, you will also need to learn about
many new tools, concepts and workflows. In this course introduction,
you may encounter many new terms, but don't worry if you don't
fully understand all of them. During the course, you'll explore these
concepts in more detail alongside the many other tasks that form the duties
of a Django developer. To assist with your learning you will take
on the role of a junior developer working in the development team for
the restaurant Little Lemon. In this fictitious role, you will
encounter many real-world scenarios applying your newfound knowledge. You will work through these scenarios, overcoming challenges by
implementing solutions. As your skill set grows, you will
focus on the tools of the framework, how they are used and
why you need to use them. For example,
Little Lemon recently launched its first website containing some HTML,
CSS and JavaScript. Adrian, the co-founder knows that as
the company grows, so must its website. In the future he wants to transition from
a static website to a web application. The main goal is to store all content
in a database and provide user access. As a result, he has asked your team to build the next
version using the Django web framework. Your job is to use your existing
knowledge of Python, HTML, CSS and databases to explore
the features of Django. Then you will build a prototype of the new
web application using the framework. You will then present this
prototype to Adrian and the rest of the development team. This course consists of five modules. Let me introduce them briefly now. First, you'll get an introduction to
Django and why It's a popular choice for backend development. Next, you will explore the concept
of views to create logic, to present data to the end users. In the next module, you will dive deeper
into your learning by exploring models. Once you are comfortable
working with models, you will learn how to work with templates. Finally, you will put your new
skills into practice with the graded assessment to create
a basic web application. Now that you have a general understanding
of the structure of the course, let's explore each of these
modules in a little more detail. In the first module, you will be
introduced to the concept of a web framework, you will learn how to
create a Django web application and how it is primarily composed of
two components, projects and apps. Then you will learn how to create and
work with projects and apps using specific command line tools with the commands,
django-admin and manage.py. You will put your newly acquired skills
into practice to create an app inside an existing project using
the correct structure. You will conclude this module by expanding
upon web frameworks to show the MVT pattern, code reusability and how Django
project structure is set up to suit this. In the next module you will explore views. You will learn about what a view is and
how to process basic HTTP requests. Then you will discover how Django
developers use the request and response objects for common operations. You will learn how to
differentiate parameters and how they associate with HTTP methods
such as get, put, post and delete. Then you will explore the use
of regular expressions to create different URL patterns and
map your URL to views. You will list common HHTP errors and handle these errors at the HTTP
view logic and view levels. Lastly you will learn more about
class-based views in Django and how to reuse them across a project. In the next module, you will fully
explore models, you will learn how to use the Django admin panel to add and control
the permissions of users and groups. Then you will explore how
to use the QuerySet API to interact with the database. You will create a form and
use the form API to bind data to objects. Finally, you will learn how to
set up a MySQL database and apply migrations to keep
your data up to date. In the next module, you will fully
explore templates, you will learn how to create templates and use
the template language to create markup. Then you will explore how to use
templating to generate HTML. Next, you will learn how to integrate
third party libraries into your Django app. You will end off by exploring,
debugging and testing in Django. In the final module, you will have
an opportunity to recap the key elements of the course before
taking the course project. In the project, you will create
a data driven web application for the Little Lemon Restaurant. Okay, so
now you know what you will be learning, let's take a quick overview about how
the course will be delivered to you. There are many videos in your course
that will gradually guide you towards your goal, watch, pause, rewind and re-watch the videos until you
are confident in your skills. Then consolidate your knowledge
by consulting the course, readings and put your skills into
practice during the course exercises. Along the way, you'll encounter several knowledge quizzes
where you can self check your progress and you're not alone in considering
a career as a Django developer. Which is why you will also work with
course discussion prompts that enable you to connect with your classmates. It's a great way to share knowledge,
discuss challenges and make new friends. To be successful in this course,
it is helpful to commit to a regular and disciplined approach to learning. You need to be serious about your study
and if possible, map out a study schedule with dates and times that you can
devote to attending the course. It's an online self paced course,
but it does help to think of your study in terms of regular
attendance at a learning institute. In summary, this course provides you with
a complete introduction to Django and is part of a program of courses that lead you
towards a career in back in development.