I don t think it was actually
named after Unchained, it was named after
the guitarist. But I'm going to
fact check myself before I spread a hunch. Oh, yeah, it was
Django Reinhardt. My name is Jeremy, I'm a
software engineer at Meta, and I work in integrity space. I'm a big advocate of learning about technology
that's actually used in real life
and Django happens to be the most popular
Python web framework. Django is a framework that
lets you process HTTP requests from end-users and eventually return back content
back to them, say, for example, an HTML page. Django is what powers
this interaction from the user requesting
data or sending data to us, us processing the data, and giving them back
some more data. Django is actually the
first web framework that I personally learned. I used it for hackathons in college as well as
undergraduate research. The reason that I
used it is it's super lightweight
and easy to spin up. Django comes with a bunch
of tools already built in as first-class features
inside of the framework. What I mean by that is
there's already a bunch of code that's within
this framework to do things like
interacting with a database or processing
HTTP requests. I would say the difference
between a framework like Django and Flask is a
matter of preference. I would analyze what you need. Do you need something
that's really lightweight, that takes an HTTP request
and returns stuff out, and you don't need stuff
like database management? Then I would go with
something like Flask. But if you want a lot
of stuff for free, if you're trying to
build, for example, a website that might
interact with a database, and you're trying to do this
really quickly to create a rapid prototype or
minimum viable product, Django is a great
candidate for that. Maybe one of the
biggest challenges of Django is there is a
learning curve to it. It comes with a lot of
different tools built-in. It requires you to learn what all of the different
features of them mean. One reason I'm a big advocate
of learning Django is it gives you exposure to
what we call the full stack. That means you'll
learn a lot about how to interact
with the database, how to make front end code that actually gets returned
out to the user, so that's what
they actually see, as well as writing
obviously, web server code, which wires these two
components together between your back-end database and
your front-end client. The web server sits in-between, meaning you'll get
full exposure to how the entire software
development cycle works. I would actually
say the best way to get better at it is
to learn by doing. That's why I'm a big proponent
of having things like personal projects even if the project itself isn't
super useful to anybody. I myself have built a lot
of useless projects out there for the sake of learning
different frameworks. For me that's actually
made me a much stronger developer over time. I'm a big advocate of coding alongside the course as you go, and the reason for
that is things in software development
tend to not stick very well if you
passively watch. If you do stuff interactively, that's taking
examples throughout this course and actually trying to build
them out alongside or doing your own
personal project, I think that'll make
your learning a lot more sticky but also
more accelerated. I hope this has
added some color on how Django is actually
used in industry, and I wish you luck
as you continue on your journey to becoming a more well-rounded
software engineer.