Imagine you're running a database for
a soccer club. As a database engineer, there's a lot of
work required to manage this database. For example, you might need to categorize players
into groups according to their ages. How can you complete this kind of task? You can use SQL comparison operators.
Over the next few minutes, you'll learn how to explain the concept
of SQL comparison operators and utilize SQL comparison operators
in a database. So what are SQL comparison operators? Comparison operators are used to compare
two values or expressions where the outcome result can be
either true or false. They can be used to filter data
and to include and exclude data. So how are these operators used in SQL? SQL uses common mathematical comparison
operators by means of the symbols equal to, less than,
and greater than. It also uses less than or equal to,
greater than or equal to, and not equal to. Now let's explore how to use these
comparison operators and relevant symbols in a practical way using a database. To demonstrate the use of SQL comparison
operators, I'll use the example of an employee table
from a company database. This table includes information on each
employee's ID, name, and salary. Now, let's assume the employer wants to
extract relevant data from the employee table about the
employees' salaries for different purposes. Each instance of data extraction will
require a different comparison operator. So in the first example, the employer
wants to identify all employees receiving a salary equal to
$18,000 per year. I can identify these employees
using the equal to operator. First, I click the SQL tab
in the main menu. Then I write SELECT * FROM employee WHERE salary = 18000. Let's break this SQL statement down. The SELECT command is used
to retrieve data. The asterisk denotes that I am selecting
data from all columns. The FROM keyword and the table name
specify where the data will come from, and then I define the condition
using the WHERE clause. In this case, the condition uses
the equal to symbol to check if the salary value in each record
of the table is equal to $18,000. If the result is true,
then the data is retrieved. So I run the query
and generate an output. The output result of this query is that
the employees Carl and John earn $18,000 per year. You can apply the other comparison
operators in a similar way to perform different functions. Let's take another example
to find out more. In this next example, the employer needs
to know which employees are receiving a salary that is
less than $24,000 per year. This task requires
a different operator. To find this information,
I can write SELECT * FROM employee
WHERE salary < 24000. This SQL statement utilizes the less than
symbol to check whether the value stored in each field of the salary column
is less than $24,000. Once again, I select the Go button
to execute the query and generate an output. The output of this query is that
the employees Carl and John earn less than $24,000. Let's take another example where the
employer needs to determine which employees receive a salary that is
less than or equal to $24,000 per year. In this case, I need to write
the following query: SELECT * FROM employee
WHERE salary <= 24000. The only thing in this statement that
has changed from the previous example is the operator symbol. This less than or equal to symbol
tells the SQL statement to check whether the value stored in each field
of the salary column is less than or equal to $24,000. I click the Go button
to execute the query. The output results show that there are
four employees who earn less than or equal to
$24,000 per year. What if the employer wants to know which
employees receive a salary that is greater than or equal to
$24,000 per year? To generate these results, I can use the
greater than or equal to operator in my SQL statement. So I write the following SQL query: SELECT * FROM employee
WHERE salary >= 24000. This time, the greater than or equal to
symbol is used to check whether the value stored in each field
of the salary column is greater than or equal to $24,000. I click Go to execute the query, and the output shows that there are
three employees who earn $24,000 or more per year. The final comparison operator available
in SQL is the not equal to operator. In this final example, the employer
wants to know which employees receive a salary that is not equal
to $24,000 per year. I can determine this using
the following SQL code: SELECT * FROM employee
WHERE salary Then I type the less than and greater
than symbols to denote the not equal to operation, and then I type 24000. As with the previous operators,
the SQL statement utilizes the operator to check the value stored in each field
of the salary column. In this case, it checks for values
that do not equate to $24,000. The output results of this query show
that there are three employees whose salaries are not equal to
$24,000 per year. You should now be able to describe
comparison operators and use them in a database in SQL. Congratulations on building another
important database skill.