In this video,
you'll learn how to create view functions
that return text and HTML markup using
the HTTP response object. Then you'll learn how to map
these functions to URLs so that they can be displayed to the end-user in a web browser. By now, you should
be familiar with the concept of views
and how they're used to create view functions with the logic and the views.py file. I've already created
an app inside the project and the
first thing I want to do is return the text
Hello World on a webpage. First I open the file called views.py and paste in some code. Notice the HTTP response
that I imported on line too it allows me to
communicate with the server. In this video, when
referencing the server, I will often use the words
request and response. Recall that requests refers to requesting information
from the server via a code and response
just means that I'm returning an HTTP
response to the server, then the response is
displayed on the webpage. It's important to know
that when I create a view function that
returns an HTTP response, it won't do anything on its own. This is because
Django doesn't know where to return the
content Hello World. To make this work, I need to map the view function to a URL using the URL configuration
file called URLs.py in the
project directory. Let me open this file
and add a new path. Once I add the path, I need to import the views.py
file from my app directory. Now Django can access the views file and the hello
function that I've defined. Notice that the path contains
the URL and the name of the function from the views.py file that I want to map to. The first argument that's
passed to the path function is the URL location that's added as a suffix to the
URL or local host. If this doesn't make
sense at the moment it will when I preview the
webpage in the browser. Now, I run the server
by typing the command python managed.py runs server. I can open the development
server by clicking the URL for the local host or copy
and paste in the browser. Notice that 404 page not
found error is returned. The reason for this
is because they added the path of say hello to the URL so I need to
add that now as a suffix. Now when I press Enter, notice that our webpage is displayed with the
text Hello World. Now I want to create another view function inside the app. So back in the views.py file, I create a new function
called homepage. This returns the text, welcome to little lemon. Once again, to map this
view function to a URL, I opened the URLs.py
file and add a path that will access the
views.homepage function. Notice how I've added a new
location called homepage to retrieve the content and this will reflect in the new URL. I save these two files and
returned to the web browser. I change the suffix from
say hello to homepage. Press Enter, and notice that
the new output is displayed. You may be wondering how does all this code
integrate with Python? Let me demonstrate
this by adding a third view function that accesses the datetime
module in Python, then I need to make
sure that I import the datetime module so
my code has excess. That looks good to
me. Now my code has access to the year that
uses the datetime module. It's stored in a variable
named date_joined. Notice that this
value is returned to a webpage and to
map it to a URL, I once again open the URLs.py file to add the associated path. Once again, I save the files. Now when I visit the webpage, I can access the URL with
the suffix display date. This displays the year. I'm happy with the code so far. However, there is one last view function left for me to add. Back in views.py, I add
another function called menu. This code allows me to pass HTML code inside an
object in Python, and I can return that
object as an HTTP response. Notice that I've also added some styling by changing
the color of the code. I save my file and once
again create the path. It's important to remember to always save the file
is after every update. Now let me revisit the webpage again and go to the
URL I've created. Notice that the
text displays with HTML markup and
some CSS styling. In this video, you
learned how to create view functions
that return the text and HTML markup using
the HTTP response object. Then you learn how to map
these functions to URL so that they can be displayed to the
end-user in a web browser. Well, at the moment the
content return is basic. Later in the course,
you'll learn how to return more complete web
pages using templates. Good luck as you continue
your development journey.