If you are building a
basic static website, all you need to do is upload your website files
to a web server. However, if you're building a dynamic website
using a framework, you may need to get a retrieved data and
render it to the browser. This data could be anything like the user's name or a
list of information. In Django, you use
something called a view to create the logic to present
data to the end-users. In this video, you
will learn about views in Django
and how developers use them to process HTTP requests and return
an HTTP response. In Django, a view is a
function designed to handle a web request and return a web response such
as an HTML document. To demonstrate
this, let's explore an HTTP request
response scenario using an example of a static
file and a dynamic file. For a static file with
no dynamic content, the HTTP request
just needs to map to where the file is located and return that
page for rendering. As the static page
does not change, nothing else is needed. Suppose the page is at the address of
littlelemon.com/index.html, the web server will process the request and
return a response containing the page
index.html to the browser, which then renders the content. You may recall that this
process is known as the HTTP request response cycle. However, if you want to do
the same thing with Django, you need to write
a Python function to create something
called a view. You create the
function inside the views.py file and
return the HTML. Let's explore this
concept further now and step through the code
one line at a time. First, you import the class HTTP response from
the django.http module. Next, you define a
function called home, and this is known as
the view function. Each view function takes an HTTP request object as its first parameter
named request. As this is a Python function, it's possible to define more parameters and
pass arguments, and you will learn about
that later in this course. It's important to know
that the name you give the view function
doesn't matter, the function doesn't need to be named in a certain way for
Django to recognize it. In this example, it's called
home because defining a function name that
clearly indicates what the function does
is good practice. Next, you create a
variable and use it to store a string containing
the HTML to be returned. Once again, you can name this
variable anything you want. In this example,
it's called content. Finally, you need to return this variable
containing the code, and you do this by using the return statement with
the HTTP response object. Inside the HTTP response, you place the variable. You can also perform other
programming logic inside of view functions such as processing data for
emails and forms, retrieving data from a database, transforming data, and
rendering templates. It's important to know that
you create view functions inside the views.py file
as a best practice. You can theoretically name the file anything that you like. But it is a good
practice to keep it as views.py as it makes it easier for your
fellow developers working on the same project. It's important to
know that creating a view function is not enough to make the
request response work. The view function
needs to be mapped to a URL so when the request
to the URL is made, the view function gets called. This process of mapping a URL to a view function
is known as routing. To set up this routing
to map URLs to views, you will need to
create a new file. Inside your project app, create a new file
called urls.py. You may recall that the project has a file with this name also. You will learn about the
difference between them later. Inside the urls.py
file of the app, you first import
the path function. Then from the app directory, you import the views.py file. Notice that both files are
in the same directory. You only need to place the period symbol after
the import statement. Next, to create a route
and map a URL to a view, you need to create
a list sequence using the variable,
URL patterns. This variable is assigned
to a list that contains the URL paths that you want
to create inside the app. The URL patterns list can
contain multiple paths, and each path is created
using the path function. The function can accept
arguments and two are acquired. The first argument is the route, which is a string that
contains a URL pattern, and the second
argument is the view, which contains the relative path and the name of
the view function. In this example,
the view function is called for the
homepage of the app. For now, it's set
to an empty string. You will learn more
about how to populate the route argument with URLs represented as strings later. In this video, you
learned about views and view functions and
how developers use them to process HTTP requests and return an HTTP response. You also learned that view functions are
mapped to URLs using the path function in the
urls.py file of the app.