Most websites or
web applications provide a homepage when you type in the name of the URL or click on the website link
from a search engine. The homepage is returned when only a request for a URL with
the domain name is sent. Previously, you learned
that in order to accept a HTTP request and
return a HTTP response, you need to create
a view function inside the views.py file. The view function
is then mapped to a URL and when the request
to that URL is made, the view function
will be called. In this video, you will learn
about URL configuration in Django and how it's used
to map URLs to views. You will explore the
URL configuration file, urls.py, and learn why it exists at both the
project and app levels. Finally, you will learn
how to reference the urls.py file at the app level
using the include function. To design URLs for an app, you create a Python
module informally called a URLconf or URL configuration. The URL configurations used
by the view functions in Django are created and
updated in the urls.py file. Django by default creates a urls.py file at
the project level. But additionally, it's
best practice to create a urls.py at the app level. This way, the respective URLs
for an app are clustered. But the project also
needs to know what URLs are used inside each app. For example, in Django, when a user makes a
request for a URL, this request is
first handled by the urls.py file at
the project level. Django looks for the
variable URL patterns. However, the code that
contains the logic for the URL mapping
is at the app level. You need a way to tell
Django to also check the urls.py file at the app level. You do this by using
the include function. In the urls.py file
at the project level, you create a new path inside
the URL patterns list. Then inside the path function, you pass a reference
to the app level urls.py file as
the view argument. This allows the project level to access the app level URLs. By using the include function, the project level urls.py can inherit the app level
URL configurations. You will explore this concept of inheritance in more detail later when you work with routes containing URLs
represented as strings. Now let's open VS Code and create the code for
the URL configuration. To begin, let's create a
project and inside the project, create an app called myapp. To ensure that the
Django app is running, launch the development
server by running the terminal command python3
manage.py runserver. Now, select the URL to deploy
Django to your local host. Notice that the webpage with a successful install
message is displayed. Let's close the webpage and
stop the server for now. The first step is to open the views.py file to create a view. Using the import statement, type django.http
import HTTP response. Next, create a function called home and pass the request
object inside of it. Next, return an HTTP response
containing a string. Let's use the example of the homepage for the
Little Lemon restaurant. The message in the string says, Welcome to the Little
Lemon restaurant. The goal is to display the message when the user
opens the local host URL. Let's explore the next steps
to display the message. The first step is
to create a file inside myapp called urls.py. Recall that this is the
app level urls.py file, and that one also exists
at the project level. In the urls.py file, you need to import
the path function from the Django dot URLs. This allows you to use the path function inside
the URL patterns list. It's inside the
path function where you map the URLs to its
relevant view function. The next step is to create the sequence called
URL patterns. Between the open and
close square brackets, you add the path function
and inside the parenthesis pass an empty string followed by the location and the name
of the view function. Because the file's urls.py file and views.py file are
in the same folder, you only need to provide the
name of the file without the.py extension where the
view function is located, and then a dot and the
name of the view function. Notice that VS Code highlights the word
views in the code. This means that in order
to use the views.py file, it must be imported. Type from.import views
and save the file. It's important to remember
to add a comma at the end of this path function to match the parsing
that Django performs. Now, save the file once more. The code is nearly complete. The final step is to set the URL configuration
at the project level. This is because the project file doesn't know where
the view function is. To set this
configuration open the urls.py of the project. Beside the keyword
path type comma, and then include to import
the include function. Next, inside the
URL patterns list, add another path function. Inside of the parenthesis, pass an empty string. For the second parameter, use the include function to pass the location of urls.py
file of the app. Once again, remember to
not add the.py extension. Save the file, and open the local host URL
in the browser. Success. The message, Welcome to the Little
Lemon restaurant displays. In this video, you learned about URL configuration in Django and how it's used to map URLs at the project level to
views at the app level.