By now you know it's good practice to
enable a PIS to send results in smaller chunks. Imagine a database with 1000 orders and
the client visits the orders end point. If there is no pagination, the client
will get 1000 orders every time when they actually only need the latest 10 orders. This unnecessary operation will put
a huge load on the database server and waste the bandwidth developers
use pagination to chunk results. Client applications can then
decide the page number and how many records they want per page. Pagination is an essential
technique that you need to learn to save server resources by
serving a limited number of records. This video will demonstrate how to
implement pagination in your DRFAPI project. For instance, if the client
requests the 7th and 8th menu item, they can make a http get request
using the normal endpoint. But after API comes
forward slash menu items. Question mark. Per page equals two and
percent page equals four. The first page contains records one and
two. The second page will have
records three and four. The third page will display
records five and six. And the fourth page will present
you with seven and eight. But here is a useful tip. You should limit the maximum number of
records a client can request per page. This is a security measure to
prevent abuse of your api endpoints. If you set the maximum limit to 10
records per page from an api endpoint but the client needs 20 records
ranging from 31 to 40. Then the client needs to make two calls
to this api The first api call will request 10 per page from page three
which will serve records 21 to 30. The second call will serve the next 10
records which are 31 to 40 from page four. But say if a client requests 50 records
in one single ap I call when the maximum limit is 10, you can send a 400
bad request http status message. Let's implement pagination
in your little lemon app. Open the views dot pi file and
go to the menu items function. You will accept to query
string parameters per page and page just after the ordering variable. Right?
These two lines of code. If the client doesn't supply any value,
the per page and pages value will be two and
one respectively import pageant ator and empty page from Django
dot org dot pageant ator. Now, just before the serialized items, add this code which will initialize
the pageant later object. It means you are creating a paginated
where the number of items per page equals per page. Now the items from a page can be retrieved
using items equals paginated dot page. Open bracket number equals
page closed bracket. But a client may request
a page that doesn't exist which will generate an empty page error. This is why you need to wrap this
line inside a try catch block. If the page exists,
it will return the items from that page. Otherwise, it will be an empty array. Now visit the menu items
endpoint with no query string. There are two menu items per page. Excellent. Your pageant ATor is working perfectly
now call the menu items end point with the necessary query strings set. The value of per page equals three and
page equals one. Now there are three menu items and
that's it. You have successfully implemented
pagination for your api project in this video, you learned the necessity
of pagination in an API project. You also learned how to implement
pagination using the corp agitator module of Django and
how to deal with a non existing page. Good job.