You already learn how to filter query set in
the previous video. This video will
demonstrate something else important called
ordering or sorting. You learn how to sort
the APA result in ascending or descending
order based on query string. There is a DRF package
called django-filters, which offers advanced filtering,
sorting, and searching. But that package is mostly
used with class-based views. Since you are using function based views with
API view decorator, you can take advantage of django's native sorting methods. After the
implementation is done, menu items can be sorted
using this query string with the menu items endpoint, http://127.0.0.1:8000/
api/menu-items? ordering equals price or http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/menu-items?ordering equals price,inventory. Let's open the menu
items function. You need to exit a new
query string parameter called ordering at this line, just after the search. Ordering equals request dot
query underscore params, dot get, open bracket, single quotation mark ordering, single quotation
mark, closed bracket. Now, just before
the line where you created the serialized
items, add these lines. With this line, you are
sorting the query set by the value supplied with
the ordering query string. Now, visit the menu
items endpoint with ordering set to price.
What do you notice? The menu items are
now properly sorted by price in an
ascending fashion, which means the items with
lowest prices go at the top. How can you change
the sorting order from ascending to descending so that the item with the
highest price goes at the top. Do you need to make any
changes to the code? Surprisingly, no code
change is required just visit the menu items with ordering set to
minus sign price, and you'll notice
the expected result in a browsable APA view. Now, you learn how to implement sorting or ordering for your APA result with just
a few lines of code. But there is still
room for improvements. What if the client wants to sort the result by two fields, price and inventory
just like this. You use your normal
endpoint but at the end it reads menu
items question mark, ordering equals price
comma inventory. This way, items will
be sorted by price first and then buy inventory
in ascending fashion. This means that
if two menu items have the same price but
different inventory values, the one with the lower
value will go at the top. How can you do this? You need to split the
ordering field with a comma and call the order by ID
method with that list, you don't need any
for-loop for this. Remove this line, you add it before the serialized items and split the value of the ordering query string
by a comma with this line. Ordering underscore fields
equals ordering dot split, open bracket, double
quotation mark, coma, double quotation
mark, close bracket. Now you can call order by
on the items query set for all those fields in the
ordering field array with this line passing the
list as arguments. That's it you are done. Let's visit the
menu items endpoint with a query string like this ordering equals
price comma inventory. The result is sorted
exactly as it should be. What if you want to sort
by price in ascending order and then by inventory
in descending order. Simply pass this query string
to the menu items endpoint ordering equals price,
minus sign inventory. Notice specifically
the minus sign before inventory and the result
changes as expected. Now you'll learn how to sort
the result of your API by multiple fields in both
ascending and descending order. In this video, you'll learn how to sort the query set using djando built-in order by method in ascending
and descending order. You will also learn how to
accept multiple fields in the query string and sort
according to them and finally, you'll learn about the
django-filters class, which is powerful, but mainly works with
class based views.