Imagine the little
lemon restaurant featured on a
prominent food blog. The positive reviews
got people so excited, that the visitors on the
little lemon website increased tremendously. The app downloads also peaked. While this is good news, it will take no time to
turn into a nightmare if your app and website can't
handle this traffic. In such a scenario, your database would stop responding and your web
server will go down. You need to implement a few techniques to ensure
nothing goes wrong. Caching is one of those. Earlier in this course, you learned that one
of the constraints of REST APIs is that they
should be cacheable. Remember, caching is a
technique of serving saved results instead of creating a fresh one every
time it is requested. This reduces the server load and bandwidth consumption
to a great extent. By now, you also know that REST API is a layered
architecture. The interesting thing is that the caching can happen
in multiple layers. Let's explore a typical
HTTP request flow in a layered API infrastructure. A visitor sends a
request to your domain, which goes to the
firewall first. From there, it goes to a reverse proxy server that sits in front of
your web server. The reverse proxy server transfers the call to
one of your web servers. Then the web server connects
to the database servers. The database server prepares the response and sends it
back to the reverse proxy, which finally sends it back to the visitor who
made that request. Now, the caching can
be done in the client, reverse proxy, web server,
and database server. Let's examine the role of each of these layers in caching, starting with the last
layer, the database server. Most modern databases
do caching to prevent excessive read-write operation
in the actual storage. Typically, they use
query cache where the SQL queries and their result are
stored in the memory. If there is no change in any of those fields in that SQL, they serve the result
from the memory, instead of preparing
the result by running that query
against the real data. This can save a huge amount
of processing power and time. However, relying only on
database caching is a bad idea, because your server-side
scripts are still connecting to the database
to get a cached result. For a given amount
of RAM and CPU, database engines can only accept a fixed number of
connections at a time. Next up, caching
on the web server. The web server runs the
server-side scripts, which can cache the response if it is certain that there was no change in the data since the last time it was
queried or accessed. Server-side scripts
cache the result in a separate cache storage
which could be simple files, or a database, or in caching tools like Redis, or Memcached, which can save you from connecting to
the database every time. Just imagine you have
1,000 hits every minute and you update
the data once every day, there is simply no
reason to connect the database thousands
of times every minute. Instead, you hit the
database onetime and cache the result, and then serve the 1,000 times 60 times 24 requests straight
from the cache every day. That's 1,440,000 requests. When the database is updated, you flush the old cache and then cache the new result
to keep going on. Just imagine how
much processing time and computing power you
are saving this way. But even the web servers
have limited capacity to respond to a number of
active requests at a time, and that's where reverse
proxy caching comes in. Traffic heavy applications
use multiple web servers behind reverse proxies to
distribute the requests evenly. The web server can send responses with appropriate
caching headers, and the reverse proxy then caches the result for a
certain amount of time, as mentioned in those headers. They then serve the request
straight from the cache. This way, your web servers will not get clogged with
too many requests. Finally, there is
client-side caching. Reverse proxies or
web servers can send responses with
caching headers, which tell the client to cache the request
for a specific time. During this time, if a request
is made the client browser or application decides whether it will use those
caching headers, serve the result
from a local cache, or create a call to your server. Since this is a
client-side behavior where you may not have
complete control, it's always a good
idea to implement the proper caching strategy
on the server side. Caching is good. It can save a lot of resources when
you implement it properly. In this video, you learned about the different ways
you can implement caching in your infrastructure.