Almost all modern apps and websites provide users
with a search function. This is one of the
most basic ways users interact
with the Internet. But in order to make
this possible for the Little Lemon
website and app, you need to adjust
your API endpoints. In this video, you
will learn about implementing searching and
filtering in your API. Remember the menu item endpoint you developed in the
Little Lemon project, it displays all available
menu items at once. When a client application makes an HTTP call to the
menu items endpoint, it will display all items
along with their categories. But what if a visitor only
wants to view items from the appetizers category
or only the main dishes, rather than everything at once? Perhaps a visitor prefers to view only items
that are within a specific price
range, such as $7-$15. Similarly, a visitor may want
to search for menu items containing the word pizza or drinks with the word mojito, and this is where the
filtering feature comes in. Filtering is a
process that allows the client applications to get a subset of the results from your API based on some criteria. You have two options when client applications want
a subset of the result, for example, all
the menu items from the appetizers or
desserts category. First, you can do nothing and to display all the items with
their category names. The client application
then processes this data and managers all
filtering on its end. Or as an API developer, you process those
conditions in the server and deliver results
matching those criteria. There are pros and cons
to both approaches. Using the first approach, you need less time
to develop your API, but it comes with a price. First, you have to pull all the records from the
database every time. For hundreds of records, this might not be an issue, but when there are
thousands of records or 10,000 or even
millions of records, then this is not sustainable. It will create a
significant load on the server and fetching 10,000 records from the
database does not make any sense when you
need only 10 or 20. The second approach will
take some extra time to develop but the
benefits are huge. For example, you are putting less load on the
server and reducing the development time for the client applications because all the filtering is
done on the server side. Let's open VS Code and
explore how to adapt your API endpoints for
searching and filtering. You are going to
filter the menu items by category, name, and price. Let's go to the menu items
function in the views.py file. This is where we will
implement the filtering. Client applications can
pass a query string to the menu items endpoint
with the query string, question mark,
category, equal sign, and then the item they
are searching for, such as main or ice cream. They can also filter
menu items by price, by adding question mark, to, underscore, price, equal sign, and three
to the API endpoint. Or they can use both criteria with an ampersand in-between. Check the menu item model. The category model
is linked inside the menu item and it
has a title field. You will use this field when
you are filtering records. To filter the items, come back to the
menu items function. You will now add parameters after the line where
you fetched the items, retrieve the category and price query parameters
as follows. Category name equals
request query params, get, and in-between parenthesis and quotation
marks add category. Do the same for the price. Now you should check
if the API user supplied some value
for these parameters. This can be done with a
simple if else block. To do this, add the following two lines before
the serialization happens. If the category name is present, filter the items with this code, items.filter, open
parenthesis, category. Now very important,
add two underscores, title, equals, category name,
close parenthesis. This title field belongs to the category model and is
linked to the menu item model. You need to use a
double underscore between the model and the field to filter a linked model like a category
inside the menu item. For a regular field like price, you use the field
name like this. Start with items.filter and
a set of parenthesis again. But this time at price, two underscores, lte, equals, to price,
in the parenthesis. What is this lte added
after the price? This is a conditional
operator or fields lookup and the price double underscore lte means price is less than
or equal to a value. You can find a list of
these fields lookups and the additional resources
at the end of this lesson. To filter for an exact price, you can use price equals sign to underscore price.
Time to test it. Visit the menu
items endpoint with the filter values you set up
and notice the difference. Now the result is
properly filtered based on the
criteria you passed. Next, let's implement searching. If a client application supplies a search parameter followed
by some characters, you will perform a
search and return those menu items whose names
start with those characters. You do this by adding
question mark, search, equals chocolate at the
end of the localhost URL. This should return
all menu items starting with chocolate, like chocolate cake and
chocolate ice cream. Just like before, get the query string
parameter search by typing search at the start
and in the parenthesis. To check if there is a value, filter the items with
an if statement. This time you will use this startswith fields
lookup condition. What if you want to search if those characters are present
anywhere in the title? You just change the field
lookup condition to contains. Lastly, how about making those searches case insensitive? The field lookup
condition will be icontains instead of contains. There is also a case
insensitive version of startswith, which
is istartswith. Now you know how to optimize
your API results and perform search and filtering
in your DRF projects. You also learned
about field lookups, which work as
comparison operators during this process. Well done.