When navigating the web, it's common to occasionally
enter a URL or click a link only to
find that the page that you are looking
for cannot be found. In this video, you
will learn how to handle errors and views using Django and explore how to create a custom 404 error page using the HTTP response
not found class. Recall that Django
displays a page not found error page when a
URL cannot be matched. This default error
page displays with some technical information
for the developer, including the request
method and request URL. However, you usually do not want your end-users to access
this type of information, as these types of error messages will mean nothing to them. Instead, you can create a
custom view for the error page. Let's open up VS Code and explore how to work
with error pages in views and switching the debug session
from true to false. Let's begin by running
a server first, by typing python3managed.py
run server. Next, open the local host URL in your browser and notice
the default page loads. If you enter some
URL, let's say home. Notice that a page not found error page is
displayed by default. The page contains some
error information and a message stating; you're seeing this
error because you have DEBUG =True in the
Django settings file. Change that to false, and Django will display
a standard 404 page. Debugging is the process of
handling errors in code. In Django, debug mode is
set to true by default, which displays detailed error
pages during development. To apply this change, open the [inaudible] file under the my project and change
the debug value to false. Additionally, you must add some value inside allowed host. In this example, add the star symbol to include
all possible hosts. Save the file and refresh
the webpage in the browser. Notice that a different type of webpage is displayed
stating not found. The requested resource was
not found on the server. It's also possible to create a custom view for
this error page. To do this, you must create a new file called views.py
at the project level. Once created, open
the URLs.py file and update the code with the necessary imports
and URL patterns. Additionally, you must add another URL pattern outside
the URL patterns sequence. Next, create the view location, my project.views.handler404
and assign it to a variable
called handler404. Next, go to the
views.py file inside the project folder and
import HTTP response. Create a view with the name handler404 as
referenced previously. Inside the function, pass the request object and
an exception argument. Then return the HTTP
response object with some text value such as 404
call on Page not Found. Save the file and return to the browser and
refresh the page. Notice that the message is
displayed on the webpage. If you modify the URL
with random values, the message remains the same. This is because the
handler 404 handles all the pages not found by
the URL configuration file. But if you add another view with a name defined in the
URL configuration, notice that the view
renders correctly. Similarly, just as the code uses the HTTP response object, you can also use HTTP
response not found. Different classes in Django represent different
status codes. The HTTP response
not found class represents status code
404 Page not Found. Modify the code in the
function's return statement, save the file, and
refresh the browser. While there is no
visible change, the client receives the 404
status message internally. You can verify this from the
browser's developer tools. Inspect the element by
right-clicking on the mouse, go into the Network tab
and clicking "Home". Once you refresh the page
and click "Home" again, notice 404 not found. Often developers will modify the string to add
some HTML elements, such as headings and a button. It's generally considered
best practice to create a custom error page
that's easy to understand, consistent with the
website's branding, and directs users
back to the homepage. In this video, you
learned how to handle errors in
views using Django. You also explored how to create a custom 404 error page using the HTTP response
not found class.