By now, you should be familiar with the
concept of mapping URLs with parameters in django. Django lets you design
URLs however you want, and you do this by using the path function and
path converters. For example, creating a custom
URL with dynamic values for more complex matching requirements,
you can define your own path converters using something
called regular expressions. In this video, you will learn how
to use regular expressions to define URL patterns in django. Suppose you have been tasked
to create a menu item page for the Little Lemon website. The page displays content for
each item on the menu. Instead of making a specific page for
each menu item, you can define the dynamic URL structure that will pass
the menu item ID to the view function. The content of the page will depend
on the menu item value passed to the view function from the URL. Based on the ID value passed in the URL,
the logic in the view function will determine what type of data
to display, like a menu item name. The advantage for developers is that
they only need to create one page. Instead of creating individual
static pages for each menu item, developers only need to create
one page whose content updates dynamically based on
the values passed in the URL. However, to ensure that the URLs
structured in the way that the view function requires,
you need a way to define and verify the values and format of the URL. To verify that the URL values passed
to the view function are correct, you can use regular expressions. Regular expressions are RegEx, are a set
of characters that specify a pattern and are used to search for or
find patterns in a string. They are a powerful tool that developers
use to perform extraction and validation, advanced searching, group searches,
and find and replace operations. In django, developers use regular
expressions to define, extract and validate dynamic URL paths before they
are sent to the associated view function. This video focuses on using regular
expressions in Django URL paths. However, it's important to know
that regular expressions are not specific to python or Django. They have many uses across various
areas of computer programming and software development. Regular expressions and
their associated characters are universal, meaning they are the same across
all programming languages. Let's begin by exploring
an example of a URL pattern containing two entries in the urlpyfile. The first path is constructed
using a regular URL, and the second with a regular expression path. Let's step through the code line by line. First, you import two functions, path and regular expression path
from the django.urlsmodule. Regular expression path is used for paths
that need to contain a regular expression, inside the URL pattern sequence
there are two entries. This example will only explore the first
argument passed inside these functions. Notice that the first path contains
the URL string of menu item forward/10. This string is static and immutable, which means it has no possible numerical
variations even if in the same format. For example if you enter a URL
such as menu item forward/1, it will not match this path and
map to the view. As a result a 404 not found
error message will be displayed. You can accept all URLs in this format
using the regular expression path function like in the second entry. Notice the character r at the beginning,
this makes a row string which treats the back slashes symbols as literal
characters and not escape characters. Let's explore some of
the most common symbols used. First is the caret symbol used as
the anchor at the start of the string, it can also be used for negation. Next is the dollar symbol which is used
as the anchor for the end of the string. You use opening and closing square
brackets to define a character set that matches any one of
the characters present inside. Next, opening and
closing curly brackets are used to specify the exact number of proceeding characters. Finally opening and closing parenthesis
are used for grouping parts of the RegEx. Now that you are familiar
with some of the characters, you can use them in regular expressions. Let's revisit the URLs structure
from the little lemon menu example. The URL begins with a string
with the word menu item, then it's followed by a forward slash, followed by parenthesis for grouping. Inside the parenthesis exists two
occurrences of numbers between 0- 9. Outside the parenthesis
is another forward slash, followed by the dollar
symbol to end the string. Acceptable strings for
this RegEx can be menu item forward slash followed
by the range 1 to 99. Regular expressions are extremely
useful while creating you URLs, but at the same time they
can often get complex. And this is especially true for regular expressions containing
several special characters. It's common for aspiring developers to feel confused
when first learning regular expressions. Sometimes a symbol can be used for
one or more purposes or the same symbol can behave
differently depending on the case. Getting familiar with their usage requires
some practice and a little patience. It's advisable to start with
the example in this video and build your knowledge using the remaining
readings and exercises in this lesson. In this video,
you learned about regular expressions and how developers use them to create and
validate dynamic URL in Django. If you would like to learn more
about regular expressions, there is a link in the additional
reading at the end of this lesson.