Organizing your code in a clean and easy to use manner is essential
when working on a project. As the project grows,
keeping code organized and well structured can be a challenge for
developers. To help overcome these challenges,
developers often use frameworks and design patterns such as MVT. For example, with the Django framework, you can use views to present
data to the end users. You have already learned that you can
respond to a web request in Django by creating a view function to return
data using the HTTP response object. In the background,
the framework passes that HTTP request to your function expecting
the HTTP response back. While this works for some use cases,
developers often need a more robust solution for implementing more
complicated application logic in a view. To help with this, Django provides
something called a class based view. In this video, you will learn about
the concept of class based views. You will also explore how developers
can simplify their views by using object oriented techniques, such as the concept of inheritance to
create views from inherited classes. Let's begin by exploring some of
the features of class based views. Class based views allow you
to use views as objects and offer an alternative to
function based views. Remember that a view is callable
in that it can take a request and return a response. This process works great for
the HTTP protocol. When dealing with HTTP,
you use specific methods for the different types of requests. Such as get, post, put and delete and these are the core CRUD operations for
any web page. If you use a function based view,
you need to perform some conditional logic on the request method,
like an if else statement. But class based views, uses a different
approach than function based views. Instead of using conditional branching,
such as if else statements. Class based views respond to HTTP
requests using class instance methods. Instance methods
are default python methods, defined in classes that can access
objects or instances of a class. In a class based view,
this can be simplified by adding different instance methods for
the get and post requests. And these methods will implement
the view logic independently. Class based views,
respond with different class instance methods to HTTP requests in place
of writing conditional branches, such as using if else,
statements inside the same function. The advantage of using a class based view
in this scenario, is that it allows you to remove the conditional logic to check the
incoming request for the type of method. This simplifies the code and separates
the logic, making it easy to understand. Another helpful aspect is the ability to
have object oriented techniques, such as mixins or multiple inheritance, which
factor code into reusable components. In Django, you can extend the functionality
of class based views using mixins. Mixins are class based generic
views that are flexible compared to their function based view equivalent. It can help to think of a mixin as
a form of multiple inheritance, recall that inheritance as one of the core
concepts of object oriented design or OOP. It allows you to derive
one class from another for a hierarchy of classes
with similar attributes. For example,
suppose you have a class called food. Other classes that can inherit from
this class could be appetizers, entree and desserts. They are all types of food and
would share a lot of common attributes. Some common mixins developers use are
create, list, retrieve, update and delete. Let's explore these briefly now. Use create to create a model instance. Use list to list a query set. Use retrieve to retrieve a model instance. Use update to update a model instance and use delete to delete a model instance. It's important to note that when using
mixins, they can't be all used together. And in some cases it can make
your code harder to read. So, it's best to use them wisely. In this video, you learned about
the concept of class based views. You also explored how developers can
simplify their views by using object oriented techniques. Such as the concept of inheritance to
create views from inherited classes.