Congratulations, you've reached the end
of this module on views. In this module, you've
learned to create Views and View logic that can process basic HTTP requests, use the request and response objects for common operations, differentiate
parameters and how they associate with HTTP methods, such as Get, Put, Post, and Delete. You also learned
to exercise using regular expressions to create
different URL patterns, map URLs to Views, and handle errors at the HTTP
View logic and view levels. It's now time to
recap the key points. You began the module with
an overview of Views. Following the completion
of this first lesson, you should now be able to
define what a view is and know that it handles web requests and
returns web responses. You know that it is just the logic that a view
calls inside a method. You familiarized yourself
with examples of this, such as using Views to
develop a dynamic website. In Django, you learned to create a View function
and map it to a URL by what is known as routing so that you can make
a request response work. In addition, you can also perform either programming logic inside of View functions such as processing data
for emails and forms, retrieving data from a database, transforming data, and
rendering templates. You explored the URL
configuration file, URLs.py, and learned
why it exists. You are familiar with creating
a view and mapping it to both the project and APP levels
with the use of VS Code. You explored the importance
of using best practices through code re-usability
and dry principles, which are fundamental to the building blocks
of Django projects. You concluded this lesson by creating a View and
adding logic to handle common use cases with
HTTP requests and responses. Following views, you
explored requests and URLs. You started by discovering the HTTP request
object and can now demonstrate how it can
be used to map to URLs, map to common crud operations, and get information by
calling the client. You delved deeper into creating more detailed
requests and how to use both request and response objects for common operations. Next, you explored how URLs are constructed and how they
can be mapped to a View. You unpacked URL name
spacing and Views, which are just how URLs can be mapped to a name and
its subsequent View. You understand that
the resource will point to the corresponding
UI to render. Then you learned about
the different options for using parameters in
a web application. You can demonstrate
how parameters relate to operations
such as Get, Put, Post, and Delete. You can differentiate
between path, query, and body params, and their association to the different HTTP
methods such as Get, Push, Post, and Delete. You also exercised setting up URL configurations using the URL dispatcher
with parameters. Finally, you learned about
creating URLs and Views. You learned about regular
expressions in URLs. You practiced how to create
different URL patterns and map a URL to a View
via the View function. Following on from this, you explored how to
handle errors such as dealing with HTTP
status responses, such as 100, 200, and 400 messages. You also discovered
how to deal with error responses from the server. Furthermore, you learned
to apply error handling in Views when working with body requests in Put
and Post operations. Finally, you concluded
by learning more about class-based Views in Django and how to reuse them
across a project. Class based Views allow
you to use Views as objects and offer an alternative
to function based Views. You also explored how
developers can simplify their Views by using object
oriented techniques, such as the concept
of inheritance to create Views from
inherited classes. You also explored different
class instance methods for HTTP requests in place of
writing conditional branches, such as using if else statements inside the same function. It also removes the
conditional logic and this simplifies the code and
separates the logic, making it easy to understand. You are now familiar
with Views and can use this to create
a logic to present data to end-users by processing HTTP requests and
returning a HTTP response. You understand the different
parameters and how they associate
with HTTP methods. You can use regular
expressions to create different URL patterns
and map URLs to Views. To route your
development process, you are prepared to
handle errors at the HTTP View logic
and Views levels. Finally, you can also
use class based Views in Django and reuse them across
a project. Well done.