You've reached the end of this
module on crud operations. In this module, you've
discovered how to create, read, update, and delete
data within a database. You've also examined different SQL data types like numeric, string, and default values. It's now time to recap the key topics you learned
and skills that you gained. You began the module
with an introduction to SQL data types. Following the completion
of this first lesson, you can now identify
and understand the numeric data
type so that you can store data as numbers
in a database, utilize numerical data
types in a database, and differentiate between
integer and decimal data types so that you can store numerical values of
different sizes, including positive
and negative ones. Following your exploration
of numerical data types, you then move down to
investigate string data types. During your investigation,
you learned how to identify and understand string
data types in a database. Demonstrate how to use string
data types and outline the key differences between
CHAR and VARCHAR data types. The final concept that
you learned about in this lesson was
default values. Now that you've completed the
lesson on default values, you are able to demonstrate an understanding of the concept of constraints in a
database with SQL syntax, and identify the
default constraint to set default
values in a table. As part of this lesson, you also want to
talk a series of exercises focused
on SQL data types. Having successfully
completed these exercises, you can now demonstrate your ability to work
with numeric data types, string data types,
and default values, and outline how to select the correct data
type for your data. Once you've completed your
study of SQL data types, we then moved on to
explore the topic of creating and reading
data in a database. Now that you've
completed this lesson, you were able to create a
database and create tables, alter database tables
and drop a database. You can also demonstrate
how to create a table in a database
with SQL syntax, alter table structure using the SQL alter table statement, and uncertain or add data into a table with SQL
insert statement. In addition to these new skills, you also learned how to
retrieve data from tables with the SQL select
statement and insert query data from one
or more tables into another target table using the Insert Into
Select statement. You also had an
opportunity to demonstrate these new skills through
a series of exercises. In these exercises you proved your ability to create
a database and a table, and then populate the table with data and manage data within your tables using the Select and Insert Into
Select statements. You then move down to the
final lesson in which you explored how to
update and delete data. Having completed this lesson, you can now demonstrate
knowledge of the SQL update
statement and utilize the update statement to update both single and multiple
field values of a record. Finally, you also proved your abilities with
these new skills by completing an exercise in which you deleted
records from a table. You're now familiar
with the create, read, update, and
delete operations. You're also skilled
in the use of SQL data types, great work. You're making good progress
on your learning journey.