Sorting a set of data
might sound like a straightforward
task given what you have already learned
throughout this course. However, it can be surprisingly challenging when you
get into the details. In this lesson you'll
explore sorting algorithms and the
different sorting methods that are available to you. You'll be introduced to some
of the various approaches to searching such as
linear and binary. You'll also discover the steps
involved in implementing both of these approaches and explore the advantages
they offer. You'll also learn
about the steps required for
implementing, Selection, Insertion, and Quicksort, and discover the strength and weaknesses of each
sorting approach. There are several algorithms
that have been developed for this challenge and
some data structures that had previously
been discussed, like binary trees and heaps. Both of these data structures
have been designed with the aim of retaining the
data in a sorted manner. Working with sorted data or
having the ability to sort your own data can result in
significant time savings. Therefore, a data
set of elements that can be ordered is
fundamentally necessary. This order could be
alphabetically, sequentially, chronologically, by size of
shape or by hue of color. The actual metric that is
used is less important than the fact that they
can be arranged in an ascending or
descending order. A second consideration
that's factored in is whether the
ordering is permuted, meaning reordered, or
has been accomplished by creating a copy whilst
keeping the original list. Selection sort is an early
approach to sorting, it mimics how a human might
approach the problem. The underlying principle
is very straightforward. You start by searching
through a list to identify the
smallest element. Then, switch this with the first element so the smallest element
is placed at the top. Now the previous occupant
of the top spot has been switched into the
vacated spot in the list. This is repeated for every
element in the list until the list has been
ordered from the smallest through to the largest. Let's explore this
in an example. You'll see in this
diagram Element 35 at index location zero. In a selection sort a comparison is made
between the element at index zero and each element in the array until
the lowest is found. Equally, Element 46 in
the next location is compared to each element and in this case
switched with six. Next is Element 36
found at Index 2. You'll notice that Element 9 at Index 3 is deemed the smallest. However the entire
array must be searched. This process is continued until every element
is ordered by size. Smallest to the left, largest to the right. Another straightforward
approach to sorting is insertion sort. Rather than searching through all the elements this approach begins by examining the first
two elements in a list. The smaller of the two is
then moved to the front. This is repeated
for every element each one being compared
to the element on it's left a subsequent switch to the left is made if it's
found to be smaller. Element 2 is compared with Element 4 is found
to be smaller, so a swap happens. Next, Element 2 is compared with Element 1 is found to be larger, so no more comparisons are made. Then Element 3 is
first compared with Element 4 is found to be
smaller so a swap occurs. Next, Element 3 is
compared to Element 2, its larger so no further
comparisons are made. Let's explore an
example of this. On screen you'll notice
an array of numbers. The first element 35 has nothing larger to the left
so it remains where it is. Then Element 46 is compared
and is also left where it is. Next you see Element 36, this is compared
with Location 1, it's smaller than 46
so they're swapped. Chase against
location zero shows that no further swaps need
a curve for this element. At Step 3 you'll
notice Element 9, this is compared with 46 and is therefore
swapped to Location 2. It is further compared with Location 0 and 1
and swapped again. Next, the element
found at Location 4 is compared with
Location 3 and swapped. It's further swapped with
Location 2 and Location 1. Is also compared
with Location 0 but as it's greater no
further movement is made. The process is continued
moving from right to left until the entire
array is sorted. Both the insertion and
selection sort are straightforward approaches
working on a simple paradigm. Quicksort is a more
sophisticated approach that is more complex
to implement. However, it shows far
greater efficiency. Quicksort operates on
the principle of pivots. The algorithm selects an element in the array as the pivot. Then all items in the array larger than
this value are moved to the right of the pivot and all elements less than the
value and move to the left. This process is repeated
for both sides of the pivot until all
the items are sorted. Let's explore this
in an example. Here, Element 9 is selected
as the pivot point. Using Quicksort all items
that are less than nine are swapped left and all items larger than nine swapped right. Therefore, the smaller
elements have now been moved left after
this first split. In this example these smaller
elements are six and three. Applying the same procedure
again to the resulting array terminates when three is found to be the only
element not split. Now taking the values
that are greater than the original selected pivot
you select a new pivot. In this case 36 is selected and a further swapping
of elements is performed. Finally, the remaining
unsorted index locations are swapped in relation
to a new pivot. Once all elements have been sorted the algorithm terminates. There are many additional
sorting approaches that can be used with some approaches even forming hybrids
of these existing ones. In practice you probably
would not write your own implementations
as there are excellent implementations
in every language. The goal here is to show how
they operate under the hood so that you can choose the best one when faced with
a given problem. As with data structures
there is not one sorting algorithm
that provides the best result in
every given scenario. Each approach has its
trade-offs and is more effective in some
environments than others. You will learn more
about the efficiency of these approaches when compared
to Big-O notation soon. In this video you've
explored sorting algorithms and the
different sorting methods that are available to you. You've also learned
about the steps required for
implementing Selection, Insertion and Quicksort
and discovered the strengths and weaknesses
of each sorting approach.