You've come to the end of another module
and you've done a great job so far. A lot of the content in this module was
to review knowledge and skills you have already covered in other courses to
help you be successful in this one. Let's go through the main
points from this module. You started off the module with
a recap of what you know about Django. After all, this module is about
the full stack using Django. Then there was another recap,
this time for APIs, which was also important since
you'll be working on an API project. Next, you learned about
doing an environment check. This included learning about the tools
you need to create your API project using Django and DRF. Furthermore, you also learned
about the virtual versus global environments using pipenv, installing
mysqlclient library with pipenv, as well as testing a mySQL connection. After this, you had another recap,
this time about databases and mySQL, to prepare you for
setting up mySQL database on a Mac. Here, you learned how to use homebrew
to install a mySQL client and server on Mac OS, and how to connect
to mySQL from the command line. Following this, there was another recap,
this one about models and migrations. This recap included
important information like, why you need models in Django, how to
create models in Django, how to create database tables using migrations and
how to update tables using migrations. After this, you learned how to configure
Django to connect to mySQL, and you had the opportunity to
practice it in the lab. At the start of the final
lesson of the module, you reviewed what you know about forms and
modelforms. This is an important topic, since forms
are the backbone of data exchange. And you can create both forms and
model forms using the Django framework. In fact, Django makes it easy with a form
class to create and process forms. And what's more? Modelform provides a way
to store data too. Remember that there are three processes
involved when creating a modelform, creating a model, creating a modelform and
configuring the view for processing form data. In the video, fetching data using
JavaScript, you learned how to use native JavaScript functionalities to update
a form inside a Django project. JavaScript helps you process simple
forms and takes care of the preliminary requirements in templating with the help
of libraries, such as Bootstrap. It also performs functionalities,
such as input validation and form reset. Lastly, you practiced submitting
a form with JavaScript. And that was the end of the module
about the full stack using Django, hope you're excited for the next one.