Forms may appear to be simple
components of Web development and therefore an aspiring developer
like yourself might not be so interested in learning more about them. However, forms are in reality the primary
elements of user interactivity on the Web. It is the backbone of data exchange. For example, the comments you make on social media
platforms are effectively done via forms. So our reviews users
give on restaurant apps. By now, you should know that
the front-end component of full-stack applications generally involves HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript. However, Django provides alternatives
to this conventional approach to creating forms. Other than templates,
Django provides an easy way to generate forms using a form API and
model form class. This video will give you a quick overview
of what you've learned about forms, ModelForms, and how they can be
generated using the Django framework. Developers use the form class and Django to automatically generate
HTML form elements from classes. In Django, the most common form
submission is a POST request which will send the data via the POST body. The server-side code handles
the incoming request and processes the data on the back end. In comparison with
creating forms using HTML, Django makes it much easier to work
with forms, especially large forms. Let's explore an example. Suppose you create a basic form
using HTML to submit a name. You can use a label to display text
describing what the input should be. The input set to the type, text,
accepts input from the end user. In this example,
the input stores the name. The second input of the submit type, is a
button that displays the text, send name. When the button is pressed, the action
will be triggered to make a POST request to be processed by the order view. And this is all defined in the form
action and form method attributes. While this process works well,
the code can become tedious and complex when dealing with large forms. For example, forms can have many different ways of
gathering data with conditional flows. Also designing forms in this way can lead
to a errors because each form elements, name, or ID attribute needs to match
with the back-end code expects. To assist developers with
form creation and processing, Django uses a form class, in this class, you can define all the expected attributes
that will be passed down in the request. This means you can use a form class to
represent the expected attributes and render the form elements in HTML. For example, the submit name form can
be represented by creating a class. Let's step through this code line by line. First, you create a class called NameForm
which accepts a parameter of forms.form. This is essentially what is
being passed in the form itself. Next, you create a variable
called your name, which is a sign forms.charField to
represent the HTML input element. Notice that you also can set some
validation by setting the attribute max length value to 100. Finally, when the name
form classes rendered, it's rendered to a view
containing the HTML form code. For developers, the advantage of creating
forms in this way is that it's much easier to manage any changes to the form. Instead of worrying about the names of
inputs matching with the server-side code, this is handled entirely
by the form class. Let's explore another type of form used
in Django, which is the ModelForm. ModelForm goes one step further by
providing a way to store data too. Sending data to the back
end using the POST method requires you to
persist the data somehow. A model in your application will represent
the table to store this information. So, the model itself can then directly
be converted into a Django form. The process of creating a ModelForm,
a special class in Django, is similar to that of separately
creating a model and a form. ModelForm provides the means to save
received data as a response directly to the database. There are three main processes
involved when creating a ModelForm. Creating a model, creating a ModelForm,
and configuring the view for processing form data. Let's take an example,
say you want to create a logging form for the employees of the Little Lemon
restaurant to log their work hours. Let's say you created
a model called Logger and passed the models.model argument to it. The class will consist
of three attributes. First name and last name that have
form fields set to charField. And a third attribute called time log,
which has TimeField as its form field. Each of these attributes corresponds
to an HTML element in the form. By convention, the user-defined
form classes are stored in a forms.pifile in the apps package folder. Inside the form, the form class,
its attributes, and methods in the Django.forms module are used as
a base for a user-defined form design. Let's examine the form closer. The Logger model is converted into
a form by the Django model form class. You import the model you
want to bind with your form. Next, you create an instance of that form passing the models.model
form as an argument. Finally, you add implementation
details for using a metaclass. Note that instead of having separate
classes for form and model, you have just one that inherits
the ModelForm and implements it. Since data exchange via a form involves
sending form data back as a response, you also need to add some implementation
details about the POST method inside the view. Let's now examine how you can do this. In the view called form view, an instance called form of
the LogForm class is created. When a POST request with
values passes validation, these values are saved to the log form. Overall, once the migrations
are performed and you run the server, the form input data gets processed by
the view and updated in the database. The attributes of a form
are field class objects. These fields correspond to the HTML
elements that eventually render on the user's Browser. For example, the forms.charField is
translated to HTML text input tag. Out of the many available form field
types, some of the most frequently used are charField which translates
to the HTML text input type. IntegerField which is
similar to a charField but is customized to accept
only integer numbers. And floatField, which is a text input field that validates
if the input is a valid float number. There is also the fileField which is
like the file upload input type on the HTML form. The emailField is a charField that
validates if the text entered is a valid email ID. And lastly, the choiceField is used to
emulate an HTML form select element. While building forms may be
a relatively simple process, there are several different options in coding
languages that can be used to create them. Selecting the appropriate type of form is
important for both the user experience and efficient data processing.