JavaScript, as you have learned,
is a scripting language that dynamically updates data, multimedia and
other components on a website. While you can use JavaScript and Django in the infinite number of ways
to develop a full stack application, developers primarily follow
one of two major approaches. Client-first or server-first. In-client first architecture,
front end is the highest priority. When following this architecture,
you first build applications using JavaScript and
other frameworks such as React and processes such as templating and
URL routing. Django is then later used primarily for
coding the interaction with the database and
utilizing utility apps such as the DRF. On the other hand, with server-first architecture,
you start by building the components of an application using Django APIs
before you work with the front end. Fortunately, Django makes it possible
to add JavaScript components inside HTML templates. The missing gaps can then be
filled using JavaScript, AJAX, and simple event handling mechanisms to build
a solid foundation for web applications. A back end developer will prefer
taking a server-first approach. While there are several supportive
libraries for JavaScript, you can build a simple form by just using
the native JavaScript functionalities. This video will demonstrate how
to use JavaScript inside a Django application to process a form. By now, you should know that the comments
users add on websites are effectively done using a form. So this example will walk you through
the steps to create a comment section for the Little Lemon food blog following
the server-first approach. Let's briefly outline what
the process will involve. The form will be updated by
an API endpoint which uses a post method to send a request
to the Django view. The entered user data or
comment is then added to a MySQL database which was created earlier
using models in Django. So, using the dom event type in
JavaScript called addEventListener and fetch API in JavaScript, you make
a POST request to the forms action URL before converting it into JSON data and
sending it to the database. Let's get started. You have created your Django project
an app and configured the URLs. Additionally, you have already
updated database settings for MySQL inside the settings.pi file with
blog underscore db as your database name. You have set the user name and
password to root for simplicity. It is not good practice to assign them
the root value in production environments. Next, let's open the models.pi file. The model user comments
consists of three attributes. The first and last names and comment
with char field as their form field. Next go to forms.pi file to
create a model form called comment form from the user comments model. This will be the form you'll
use in your Django template, then go to the views.pi file and add
the required imports such as the model, model form and JSON response class. Now create the view function
called form view and pass the request object as an argument. You're going to use this view function for
two things, rendering and processing the form data and
then sending it to your model. First, create a form object from
the comment form model form. Create a condition so that it updates the form object with its
contents if the request method is POST. In other words,
the form data that the user has entered. If the form data is in a valid format,
you create a new variable called CD. That is assigned the result of a clean
data function on the form object. Clean data is a form function in Django
that helps with data normalization. Now you need to send this data
to the user comments model. Do this by creating an object
variable called UC and assign it the user comments model class. Individually assign the values that
you received from the POST method to the attributes in the model. Finally, call the save function on
the UC object to update the model data. To complete the code of the view,
return the render function from it and pass the arguments request blog.html and
the form data as a dictionary. Note that the dictionary object that was
passed will be used to render the model form in the template. Moving on, create a template
called blog.html inside the app, matching the name you have passed
inside the render function. Open the file and make sure the basic
HTML tags such as title and heading are updated. Next, add the form that you passed using
render function inside the template. Use the Django template language
as a paragraph denoted by dot as underscore P which must be
added inside the html form tag. Now create an html script tag to
add the JavaScript functionality. Create a constant called Form and assign the get element by ID
function with form passed inside it. This helps access the specific
form element from the html code. Next, add an event listener function
called addEventListener and pass a function inside
it call submit handler. Submit handler is where you'll be adding
the form handling mechanism next. First, add a failsafe mechanism by
calling the prevent default function. Call the fetch function and
pass some arguments inside it. This line makes a POST request
to the form's action URL. The dot that follows is a promise
made by the fetch function that represents an eventual completion of
an operation that may be a synchronous. Inside it, pass the response object
that is first converted into JSON. In the next dot then function
the JSON data gets processed. If the processing is completed, JavaScript
will send a successful submission alert. Finally, add a line to reset
the form after submission. Close the html and body tags to
complete the code and save the file. To keep the alert in sync with the code
and Django, open the view.pi file once again and return to JSON response class
that will post the success message. Let's save this file again and
perform the migrations. Note that the user comments model created
from the model will also render as a form. Time to test it. Add a command to run the server and go to
the specified URL by adding the suffix quotation mark forward/blog closed
quotation mark to the code. Notice the form that you have created
contains the first and last name and a text field for adding a comment. Enter some details and
press the submit button. When you press the submit button, notice how JavaScript sends
a text alert displaying success. Let's close this alert and
add another comment. Let's review what's happening. The couple of entries you have added will
be updated in a table called My app user comments. Inside the book DB,
MySQL database and that's it. Now you know how JavaScript with the help
of functionalities such as fetch API and event handler can be used for updating form data without refreshing
web pages inside a Django project.