CSS Grid layouts are important when it comes to
designing a good webpage. This is because layouts are a way to provide visual cues for a user by organizing relevant content to make
it easier to comprehend. Let's learn more about layouts. When someone says the word grid, you probably think of
lines that cross each other to form squares
or rectangles. CSS Grids are two-dimensional
design layouts that are responsive and compatible
with browser variations. They are an alternative to other options such as
Flexboxes and tables, especially when you are working with larger scale layouts. Columns are the
vertical tracks and rows are the horizontal
tracks in your viewport. Grids divide the page
into rows and columns, and the space
between these tracks are called gutters or gaps. A cell is the space in a grid container where a
row and column intersect. There are several different
configurations you can add to define
and modify grids. Let's examine an
example that uses a HTML document to demonstrate how to iteratively
make changes to a grid. First, let's create a HTML
document called index.html. Right now, the contents
displayed in the viewport are just a vertical
series of letters from A to E without any styling. Let's start adding
content to the CSS file. The first thing to do is set the values for the properties of the different box classes inside the container object to make the layout look
more presentable. The letters now have a
better visual design, but their arrangement
on screen is unchanged. The result is that
each letter occupies more screen space than is
necessary for its size. What's displayed in the viewport
may appear to be a grid, but it's not actually one. It's just the default
settings of CSS for a layout. Once you convert this
into the grid layout, you'll be able to recognize
the flexibility it can add. Let's convert it
into a grid layout. Set the properties of
the container class by first assigning a grid value
to the display property. The display property
is also used to set display types for other
designs such as flex, block, inline, and so on. It's usually a part of container elements
inside our code. The updated container now has the display
property value set to grid and the property values configured for three
columns and two rows. That's two changes from the previous configuration.
Let's examine them. The grid template columns
property has been added into the CSS code to set the size of each of the three columns
using pixel values. The use of fr, which is an abbreviation for fraction, has been introduced. Fraction effectively
divides the grid. The page now displays
five separate grid cells around the letters which are arranged in three
columns and two rows. Where applied, the grid
tracks are divided proportionately to the ratio of all the fraction values present. As there are two rows, the defined values are sized
in the ratio of two to one. Fraction adds
flexibility to the grid without needing to deal
with actual pixel sizes. It must be noted though, that fraction and pixel
sizes can be used interchangeably with
both rows and columns. Now to add a couple of
properties such as grid gap or gutter and background
color to define the grid, the updated view displays
a red box representing the grid because that's what the background colors
RGB value was set to. The grid stretches by default the entire width of the page and the size of the grid track or gutter has been
adjusted to 10 pixels, which leaves more space
between the grid cells. You can also opt to use the
auto properties such as grid, auto rows and grid auto columns collectively called
the implicit grid. Let's replace the
grid template rows property in the code
with grid auto rows. All the rows are now
auto-resized to 100 pixels. Now let's examine
some of the functions that can make configuring
the layout easier. First, the repeat function
passes the number of repeats required for a given
number of rows and columns. The result of the
code adjustment is an unchanged webpage from the last instance because the repeat function
didn't change anything, it just reduced the amount
of code you need to write. Therefore, the repeat
function helps reduce redundancy and provides
ease of code modification. Next, the min-max function sets the minimum and maximum values expected for the sizes
of rows and columns. Let's set the value for the
grid auto rows to 150 pixels. The output is modified so that the minimum size of
each row is 150 pixels. One more important concept
is grid frameworks. There are a number of commonly used grid frameworks
and layouts. Two such grid design layouts are known as the 12 and
16-column grids. They divide the page into 12
and 16 tracks respectively, along the vertical columns. The properties can be modified accordingly to target
a specific track. CSS Grid layouts are so important when it comes
to good webpage design. This video has
demonstrated that layer to provide visual
cues for the user by organizing content
in a way that makes it easier to understand. Who knows? Soon you'll be building your own web pages and you'll be able to test out some of the techniques
shown in this video. Don't forget the repeat
and min-max functions, they'll save you
time and effort.