Pseudo-class selectors
give developers great control over what
they select and style. By knowing how to
use these selectors, you will not only improve the interactivity
of your web pages, but you will also be able to add advanced styling without
too much effort. These selectors are also often referred to as just
pseudo-classes. Previously, you were briefly introduced to the
pseudo-class invalid. Remember, pseudo-classes
are state-based selectors, which means that they
allow you to select elements based on their state. For example, the hover state. You use pseudo-class selectors to improve the interactivity of web pages by styling elements
in response to user input. In this video, you will explore practical examples
of how to do this. There are many types
of pseudo-classes. Other than the hover state, examples include
selecting an element when it is active or in-focus, or when a link has
already been visited. Pseudo-classes are also very effective to target
specific elements such as, let's say, the fifth
item in a list, bold items, empty
elements, and so on. Let's review the general syntax that you use for
various pseudo-classes. You add the selector, a colon, the pseudo-class, and
then the properties. Well, there isn't a broadly accepted classification
for pseudo-classes, you can group them in terms of general similarities
and their purpose. Let's explore a few of these
general classifications. The first group you need to know about is user action states, which include the
hover pseudo-class, which changes the style of an element when a
cursor hovers over it. The active pseudo-class, which styles an
element only while a user actively presses and
holds the mouse button, and the focus pseudo-class, which focuses styling on the
element that you use it for. These pseudo-classes have
an effect while a user is actively engaging
with a HTML element. Let's explore an example
of how the hover and active pseudo-classes
can be used. Say you have a HTML
file with an a tag inside a paragraph and a button element
inside a div element. The paragraph element
has a class defined as "mypage" and the button class
is defined as "mybutton." Now, let's explore the CSS. First it contains
basically styling for the mypage and mybutton
class elements. Then to make the link change its appearance when a
user hovers over it, you use the hover
pseudo-class to target a tag. To change the mybutton class, you use the active pseudo-class. The active pseudo-class
changes the properties of an element when the state
of that element is active. In this case, the styling
properties will be applied only when a user presses and holds
the mouse button. In this example, the
pseudo-class selectors target HTML elements, but you can also use them to target HTML class attributes. Next, let's focus
on Form states. Previously, when discussing
form validation you were introduced to the invalid
pseudo-class selector. But there are more
pseudo-classes that are specifically used
for HTML forms. They usually come
in pairs and target the different states
that elements can have. Form state pseudo-classes
include disabled and enabled, generally used for buttons, checked and indeterminate,
that are used for checkboxes, and valid and invalid used in case of fields like
emails and phone numbers. Another pseudo-class type
that you should know about is specific
position-based states. They allow you to
target specific items, for instance, a specific list item among the list elements. Some examples of
this type include, first-of-type, last-of-type, nth-of-type, and
nth-last-of-type. Let's explore an example
of first-of-type. Say you have two list items in an HTML page, Adrian and Mario. With the first-of-type
pseudo-class, you can style the first item of its type while the remaining
items will not be affected. In this video, you explored a few examples of
how you can use pseudo-classes to improve the interactivity
of your web pages. There are plenty of other pseudo-classes and some of them are more
popular than others. You're encouraged to follow
your own style and explore the creative possibilities
that pseudo-classes offer.