At this stage, you
should be familiar with different layouts
and grid structures, and you should be ready
to start using flexbox. Let's explore a few
practical examples of how you can use it. In the next few minutes,
you will explore what the three most common
uses of flexbox are. As mentioned earlier, flexboxes
are more suitable to use for simple layout or designing
simple elements in a page. In line with that idea, let's explore a few commonly
used design elements that you see on a page. You will discover simple ways
in which you can utilize flexboxes for binding elements together or creating
an easy layout. Let's explore the
three most common uses of flexbox is in CSS. The first application of
flexbox that you will cover that is commonly
used is a search bar. You can use flex in search bars because it
ties up all the elements, such as the small Search icon, the search input area, and the Submit button. Next, you can create the
navigation bar using flex, which consists of several
different layouts, and it makes your navigation bar highly responsive on
different devices. Finally, another
type of flexbox that is commonly used is
an image gallery. Flexes helpful here
is it can realign itself as you change
the size of the window. In the next few minutes, you will discover how to create these flexboxes to
ensure a simple layout. In the first example
of a flexbox file, I will create a search bar, I add a reference
to the CSS file in the head section
of the HTML page. After that, I add content inside the body section
of our HTML code. I first create a container
class with a div tag. Inside this container, I have
three different elements, which are the search icon, the search box where
I typed my search, and finally the Submit button. In the CSS code, I first write rules
for the container, then for the search icon, the search box, and
finally for the button. Most of the properties
defined here are settings for the alignment
of the selectors. There are just a few important
things to take note of. The display property I use is inline flex instead of flex, which makes the flex container behave like an inline element. Another property to take
note of is the overflow. The overflow property clips
the overflowing content, which in this case will be the text I enter in
the search query. Then I add the properties for the icon and the search box. Finally, I add the properties
for the Search button. Let's remove this CSS code momentarily to check how the
output displays with aided. Although all the
elements are there the page is standard
and playing, I add the code back to the CSS file and check
the output one more time. Now the search box displays the properties that I
defined in my CSS file. Notice that when I change
the size of the page, the search area doesn't change. Another place where
flexbox is used quite frequently is in
navigation menus. In this case, I created an unordered list that
consists of four items. Notice that in my CSS code I use something called a star
or universal selector. The universal selector
applies the rules to every element in my CSS code. I use this to declare any formatting that
is browser specific. Now I define the rules
for the container. It's important to notice
that I use the flex-flow, which is a shorthand property
specifying the direction of the flex container and
its behavior for wrapping. Another important property
is justify content, which aligns the flexible
containers items along the main axis. In this case, I have
set it to stretch. Since the individual elements
are part of the container, I applied the rules
both to the container, onto the elements which
are the list items, anchor, tag, and so on. It's also important to notice that the page is responsive. As the size of the browser
window gets smaller, the items stacked on
top of each other, and if I expand the window, it changes to a standard
horizontal navigation menu. One final flexbox
example that I will demonstrate is a
responsive image gallery. All the elements
for the gallery is in the body of the HTML file. There is a div element with
a class container that consists of six images that are saved inside the project folder. Now, let's open the CSS file. First, I remove all
browser-specific settings that may be there by using the star selector just
like I did earlier. I set the value of
both the margin and the padding to zero. I then reset the basic
alignment options for the images by setting
the border to zero. Next, let's focus
on the container. First, I set the value
of display to flex, then I add the flex-wrap property which
determines whether the flex items
should be forced in one line or should wrap
over multiple lines. Next, I justify the
content property, which aligns the
flexible container items on the horizontal main axis, I set it to space dash between. Finally, I add some padding. Let's inspect the output. The output window is
narrow at the moment, so the six images are stacked
on top of each other. But when I expand the
window, they spread out. One can notice the effect
better in a browser, so I copy the link and
paste it into my browser. When I change the size
of the browser window, it is clear that
the alignment of these images is responsive. These are just some
of the ways in which you use flexboxes to provide responsiveness to
websites and bind different elements
together on web pages. You should now be
more familiar with some simple ways in which
you can use flexboxes to bind elements together to create an easy responsive layout
on your webpage. Good job.