An interesting fact about
collaborating on projects that Meta is that engineers drive
every project at Meta. They're in charge
of coordinating with product data scientists, researchers on what we're building and the
timelines for that. Whereas another company's
product managers or leadership is often in
charge of each project. I'm Laila Rizvi, I'm in back-end
software engineer on Instagram calling
in San Francisco. In this video, I
hope you learn that effective collaboration
is important for engineers' success at
Meta and learning how to use version control at Meta
is also very important. As a back-end engineer
on Instagram calling, for my role I collaborate with
other mobile engineers and my department on a
daily basis so that we build the best
products together. I also collaborate with
Instagram messaging a lot because calling and
messaging are closely tied. I also work with
non-engineers like product and data scientists
regularly as well. To collaborate effectively
with my coworkers, we message each other on
chat to unblock one another, but when something
wants a meeting, we will schedule a meeting. Something wants a document, we collaborate
together on a document with comments and leave
notes for one another. Version control for Instagram
is interesting because we have one giant
monolithic repository for all of our
code for back-end. That means that whenever
I'm making a change, the code that I'm writing in is shared with every
other Instagram team. It is risky in some ways, but it's also nice and others
so I can reuse their code. The other thing
that's interesting about version control at Meta is that any engineer
can improve any change. At Meta, they're big on this saying that nothing at Meta
is someone else's problem, so that means that
any engineer can actually work on anytime
that they want to work on. Version control at Meta
is a little different than version control at
a lot of other places while Meta has a giant
monolithic repository for our code where we
continuously release our code. Many other companies have smaller repository called
micro-services for each team, so each team has
their own code-base and only they work in it. They use branches so that
they can take their code and merge it back with the master branch for their team or product. This is great for smaller
teams in some ways, but it has its cons and that
you might run into a lot of merge conflicts at Meta because we have so
many engineers. They would be too many
merge conflicts if we add branches for each
team in the company. Some collaboration challenges
for version control on my team is that because we
use a monolithic repository, merge conflicts happen a lot. We try to write smaller changes so that we can
easily revert them. We also try to add a lot
of gatekeepers so that if we shift something to
production on Instagram, we can easily turn it off without waiting
for any rollback. We also share our code
with Messenger calling. We also have to
add a lot of tests so messenger doesn't break us. Git blame is a way
for us to look at the revision history for files. It helps us so that
if I'm looking at a line of code and I
don't understand it, I can figure out who wrote that code and reach out to them. I can also figure out what
they were trying to do. In that code, they write a message saying what
the change is for. It's also great so
that I can figure out what changes to revert if I'm
trying to revert a change. I use it every single day when I need to understand
what some code is doing, I'll reach out to the point of contact that wrote that code which is especially helpful at Meta where there's
so many engineers, I often don't know the person
I need to get a hold of, so seeing their code helps. In this video, I hope you
learn that learning how to work together effectively
and collaborating well, as well as learning how
to use version control effectively is critical
for success at Meta. Getting a diverse set of perspectives on what
features you should build, who you should build for, what a feature might need or
how it can improve is really helpful and the rewarding
part is that your end result, your project ends
up being better.